This paper presents a systematic review of how extended reality technologies (XR-technologies) affect the learning outcomes and students' performance in architectural education. Based on a modified PICO-strategy and the framework analysis of the findings of previous researches on immersive environments, this paper elucidates the impact of XR-technologies, including virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), and mixed reality (MR), on Bryan Lawson's five phases of the design process. Furthermore, this study investigates the applications of XR-technologies in different courses of architectural education. The results are categorized into four different course types that were derived from the reviewed article. The results show that XR-technologies, including VR, AR, and MR are capable of enhancing various stages of the design process and improving learning outcomes in educational courses among architecture students. Similarly, the application of such environments is also suitable for professional architectural design and inclusion of end-users in the design process. Z8 0

Extended Reality (XR) technology is changing online interactions, but its granular data collection sensors may be more invasive to user privacy than web, mobile, and the Internet of Things technologies. Despite an increased interest in studying developers' concerns about XR device privacy, user perceptions have rarely been addressed. We surveyed 464 XR users to assess their awareness, concerns, and coping strategies around XR data in 18 scenarios. Our findings demonstrate that many factors, such as data types and sensitivity, affect users' perceptions of privacy in XR. However, users' limited awareness of XR sensors' granular data collection capabilities, such as involuntary body signals of emotional responses, restricted the range of privacy-protective strategies they used. Our results highlight a need to enhance users' awareness of data privacy threats in XR, design privacy-choice interfaces tailored to XR environments, and develop transparent XR data practices.

Extended Reality (XR) is an extension of the real world obtained thanks to the increase of innovative features that allow users to perceive the surrounding reality in a different and enhanced way, combining it with virtual elements. XR is declined through three different technologies that help change the perception of reality: Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR). The latter combines VR and AR creating a more complex experience, generating a new reality resulting from the union between real and virtual allows the user to interact simultaneously with the real world and the virtual environment. In the last years XR technology has been employed in several fields of application, except in geomatics, that is the less explored field. Given the extreme complexity of heterogeneous geomatics data, the visualization is complex, and there is the need to better understand the potential of MR for both users and experts. Considering the potentiality of this technology in geomatics, in this paper we present GEOLENS, an MR application in an eXtended environment. With GEOLENS it is possible to visualize digitally produced objects and information in the field and superimpose them on reality. The advantages of this solution in the field of surveying, architectural design and Geographical Information System (GIS), are the interaction of digital design with reality for greater decision control, time saving and office-field sharing. This paper reports over the development of a cloud-based platform which acts as a repository of geomatics data, ready to use in the real environment. The features described prove the suitability of the solution for multiple purposes.

Alternative reality (XR) technologies, including physical, augmented, hybrid, and virtual reality, offer ways for engineered spaces to be evaluated. Traditionally, practitioners (such as those designing spacecraft habitats) have relied on physical mockups to perform such design evaluations, but digital XR technologies present several streamlining advantages over their physical counterparts. These digital environments vary in their level of virtuality, and consequently have different effects on human perception and performance, with respect to a completely physical mockup environment. To date, very little has been done to characterize and quantify such differences in human perception and performance across XR environments of equal fidelity for the same end application. Here, we show that perception and performance in the virtual reality environment most closely mirror those in the physical reality environment, as measured through volumetric assessment and functional task experiments. These experiments required subjects to judge the dimensions of 3D objects and perform operational tasks presented via checklists. Our results highlight the potential for virtual reality systems to accelerate the iterative design of engineered spaces relative to the use of physical mockups, while preserving the human perception and performance characteristics of a completely physical environment. These findings also elucidate specific advantages and disadvantages to specific digital XR technologies with respect to one another and the physical reality baseline. Practitioners may inform their selection of an XR modality for their specific end application based on this comparative analysis, as it contextualizes the niche for each technology in the realm of iterative design for engineered spaces.

Dark patterns are deceptive designs that influence a user's interactions with an interface to benefit someone other than the user. Prior work has identified dark patterns in windows, icons, menus, and pointer (WIMP) interfaces and ubicomp environments, but how dark patterns can manifest in Augmented and Virtual Reality (collectively XR) requires more attention. We therefore conducted 10 co-design workshops with 20 experts in XR and deceptive design. Our participants co-designed 42 scenarios containing dark patterns, based on application archetypes presented in recent HCI/XR literature. In the co-designed scenarios, we identified 10 novel dark patterns in addition to 39 existing ones, as well as 10 examples in which specific characteristics associated with XR potentially amplified the effect dark patterns could have on users. Based on our findings and prior work, we present a classification of XR-specific properties that facilitate dark patterns: perception, spatiality, physical/virtual barriers, and XR device sensing. We also present the experts' assessments of the likelihood and severity of the co-designed scenarios and highlight key aspects they considered for this evaluation, for example, technological feasibility, ease of upscaling and distributing malicious implementations, and the application's context of use. Finally, we discuss means to mitigate XR dark patterns and support regulatory bodies to reduce potential harms.

In the realm of virtual object manipulation, multitouch solutions have been explored since the early days of tabletop gesture interactions. However, with the advent of virtual and mixed reality, the exploration of touch-based solutions has predominantly shifted towards gesture design and input mediums like wearables, overlooking optimization for user experiences in immersive XR environments. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach by collaborating a smartwatch with AR glasses, considering both input device posture and the user's viewpoint, to implement five levels of exploration solutions. Through user experiments, we compare and identify the two most prominent ones and summarize factors influencing users' perception in manipulating virtual objects. These will promote more targeted interaction design and experimental research.

Enhanced virtual communicative technologies extend human perception in extraordinary ways that junction in detaching or augmenting its operator from physical reality. Prospects of the metaverse are progressing towards a possibly fully immersive cyberspace in which users will be entirely disconnected from their analogue physical surroundings. As we advance towards such an alternative reality, the practice-based research project discussed in this paper, titled "Resonance-In-Sight," foresees and demonstrates the near-future of the metaverse to be a blended hyper-reality in which fiction and reality seamlessly blend into a "Mixed Reality" (MR)-based, co-urban design environment. As digital content in such an environment creatively coexists with our physical cityscape, the research question posed by this project is how such media environment can be used as a proactive cultural educational tool to engage with and inform user audiences of otherwise challenging art-historical content. Through this demonstrator project, the article discusses and reflects on applied methods for user experience (UX) design and the development of MR mobile applications for effective mixed-reality installations. It further reports on employed "Simultaneous Localisation And Mapping" (SLAM) techniques, which are essential for merging co-virtual design content in a hybrid metaverse, and concludes with an assessment of the project's community impact from an analysis of available user data.

With continued technological innovations in the fields of mixed reality (MR), wearable type MR devices, such as head-mounted display (HMD), have been released and are frequently used in various fields, such as entertainment, training, education, and shopping. However, because each product has different parts and specifications in terms of design and manufacturing process, users feel that the virtual objects overlaying real environments in MR are visualized differently, depending on the scale and color used by the MR device. In this paper, we compare the effect of scale and color parameters on users' perceptions in using different types of MR devices to improve their MR experiences in real life. We conducted two experiments (scale and color), and our experimental study showed that the subjects who participated in the scale perception experiment clearly tended to underestimate virtual objects, in comparison with real objects, and overestimated color in MR environments.

Extended Reality (XR) technologies such as AR, VR and MR have influenced many industries, including architecture. Even though they are all capable of creating immersive digital worlds, the only one capable of merging the real world with a holographic 3D modelby letting the user interact intuitively and naturally with the project is MR. In this paper, 42 participants were divided into two groups and analyzed an original architectural renovation design. They assessed the effectiveness of design review using Mixed Reality (MR) versus traditional 2D methods. The results show that MR based design review can effectively communicate 85% of the information to the client versus 70% provided by 2D media. At the same time, it has the potential to enhance the client's comprehension of the aesthetic characteristics of materials, giving the possibility to replace physical samples during the finishing stage of construction.

Humans perceive gravitational forces on their surroundings through a mix of visual and sensorimotor cues. The accurate presentation of such cues is a difficult task in Mixed/Augmented Reality (MR/AR), technological paradigms that blend physical and virtual elements to enhance the way we interact with our environment. Realistically perceiving the weight of virtual elements within a MR/AR scenario aids in the embodiment of those elements within the user's reality, further blurring the lines between what is real and virtual. Unfortunately, current force feedback devices are not designed for or are entirely compatible with MR/AR experiences. To address this need, we explore minimal haptic feedback for weight perception in MR/AR, aiming to simplify the rendering of gravitational cues that are crucial to an immersive experience. Our benchtop device, focused on wrist feedback, showed improved user experience even within an implicit weight feedback task, i.e., a task where weight perception was not required for task completion. However, challenges arose in mixed real-virtual environments, a cornerstone of MR/AR interaction, where weight discrimination was observed to be less accurate. To address this, we developed a compensation scheme for virtual weights, leading to performance on par with a purely virtual environment. Our work demonstrates the viability of minimal haptic feedback in MR/AR applications and highlights the importance of integrating weight perception for increased realism. Our work also fills a research gap in MR/AR development, providing insights for designing future MR/AR systems that integrate with human sensory mechanisms to create virtual interactions that more closely mirror the physical world. Z8 0

In AR, VR, and MR (XR) devices, display quality is determined by user perception of the display when observed as designed into the device. Measurement systems emulate the viewing conditions of an XR user by applying imaging with optics that position the entrance pupil (aperture) at the eye position within the headset. This viewing proximity is common across XR displays, but there is no standard guiding XR device design. Display technologies, projection methods, and headsets continue to evolve. New display measurement equipment must be developed continuously to address the unique viewing conditions of new devices-different angular fields of view (FOV), resolutions, focus ranges, and hardware form factors. Many XR devices require measurement systems with costly custom optics. There is no one-size-fits-all solution and, once designed, a measurement system is not easily modified for different use cases. The speed of XR innovation calls for equipment that helps manufacturers deploy device-specific display measurement as quickly and easily as possible. Described in this paper, a novel optical design greatly simplifies the process of building imaging systems for near-eye display (NED) metrology. Using commercially available modular components, a variety of optical configurations can be produced and, if needed, reconfigured to match unique specifications of most XR headsets with minimal development time. Features such as electronic focus control and folded ("periscope") geometries can be incorporated easily to accommodate different focus ranges and form factors. This paper introduces this optical design concept and provides examples of the performance of a modular system for NED measurement.

The dynamic development of solutions in the field of virtual and augmented reality poses challenges to designers. These challenges relate to both technical conditions, including hardware capabilities and software solutions, as well as psychophysical constructs conditioning the end users' reception of the generated multimedia message. One of the key elements of the virtual and augmented reality experience is the interaction with the system through a virtual agent represented by an avatar, i.e. a reflection of the image of a participant in the virtual world, carrying on a conversation with the user. This paper presents a proposed software and hardware solution for conducting multifaceted research and comparative analysis of diverse interfaces and human-computer interaction in virtual and augmented reality. In the course of this research, statistically significant results were obtained indicating differences in perception between three types of virtual agents. Each of them represented by different avatars in a specially created research environment that allowed to conduct usability tests under reproducible conditions to study user interaction in virtual reality.

The quality of collaboration between an on-site novice user and a remote expert in cross-reality (XR) settings depends on mutual spatial awareness. Non-stereo video mirrors in Augmented Reality (AR) - Virtual Reality (VR) telementoring settings lack depth cues to meaningfully implement 3D interaction techniques like gesture guiding and gaze cues. This work introduces a visual cue for non-static video streams that acts as an add-on to these interaction techniques, drawing from principles of monocular depth perception. Descriptive results from a comparative within-design user study indicate that the "illumination cue" can improve spatial awareness primarily for the remote expert.

Mixed Reality enables individuals to visualise and interact with artefacts and environments through a combination of physical and virtual assets. It has received increased interest from the design community as a means to accelerate, enrich and enhance prototyping activities. This article concerns MR's ability to deceive an individual through the combination of virtual and physical assets and their underlying traits (e.g., mass, size), and a user's cognitive ability to 'join the dots'. If properly implemented, MR could save time and resources by reducing the required prototype fidelity and the need to fully realise variants. However, there is a gap in understanding how the traits of physical and virtual assets and cognition combine to form reality. This article presents a study investigated the role mass, virtual and physical model size played on users perception of an MR prototype. The relative impact of these factors was determined by varying these parameters and assessing the user's perceived change. The key finding from this study was that the virtual model size had a far greater influence on prototype perceived by the user. This suggests that the required physical fidelity of an MR prototype can be lower than the virtual. Furthermore, exploring size design variants can be achieved exclusively through changes to the virtual model.

Today, various types of extended reality (XR) environments are becoming increasingly used in industrial engineering contexts for design, analysis as well as for training activities. User's perception plays a key role especially in such XR based learning and training contexts. Perception refers to the process by which individuals become aware and process the stimuli around them. Interdisciplinary researchers have studied the vital relationship between perception and cognition. In this groundbreaking study, the role of perception and its impact on cognition and learning in fully immersive Virtual Reality (VR) based digital twins is discussed. Schemas have been proposed to help lay the foundation to study the role of perception on cognition and learning. The primary outcomes of this research study underscored the relationships between perception and cognitionwhile also emphasizing the impact of a participant's background in influencing their perception of the target robotics assembly environments.

We examine peripheral interactions in XR environments, for which we propose a conceptual space with two specialized dimensions, interaction-attention and reality-virtuality. We also formalize the notion of an "XR display" to expand the application range of ambient displays from physical environments to XR. To operationalize these conceptual contributions for researchers and practitioners, we capitalize on Sapiens, an open-source event-based software architecture for peripheral interactions in smart environments, to propose Sapiens-in-XR, an extended architecture that also covers XR displays. In a simulation study based on a Poisson probabilistic model of notification delivery, we demonstrate the efficiency of the event processing pipeline of Sapiens-in-XR with an average processing time of just 18ms from event creation to delivery. We present simulations of peripheral interaction scenarios enabled by our conceptual space and Sapiens-in-XR, and report empirical results from a controlled experiment implementing one scenario, where users were asked to maintain their focus of attention in the central field of view while notifications were displayed at the attention periphery. Our results show similar user perception and the same level of user performance for understanding and recalling content of notifications in either the virtual and physical environments. Our conceptual space, software architecture, and simulator constitute tools meant to assist researchers and practitioners to explore, design, and implement peripheral interactions in XR.

The aim of this study is to develop and assess the peg transfer training module face, content and construct validation use of the box, virtual reality (VR), cognitive virtual reality (CVR), augmented reality (AR), and mixed reality (MR) trainer, thereby to compare advantages and disadvantages of these simulators. Training system (VatsSim-XR) design includes customized haptic-enabled thoracoscopic instruments, virtual reality helmet set, endoscope kit with navigation, and the patient-specific corresponding training environment. A cohort of 32 trainees comprising 24 novices and 8 experts underwent the real and virtual simulators that were conducted in the department of thoracic surgery of Yunnan First People's Hospital. Both subjective and objective evaluations have been developed to explore the visual and haptic potential promotions in peg transfer education. Experiments and evaluation results conducted by both professional and novice thoracic surgeons show that the surgery skills from experts are better than novices overall, AR trainer is able to provide a more balanced training environments on visuohaptic fidelity and accuracy, box trainer and MR trainer demonstrated the best realism 3D perception and surgical immersive performance, respectively, and CVR trainer shows a better clinic effect that the traditional VR trainer. Combining these in a systematic approach, tuned with specific fidelity requirements, medical simulation systems would be able to provide a more immersive and effective training environment.

Product evaluation throughout the design process is a fundamental task for product success, which also helps to reduce design-related costs. Physical prototyping is a common method to assess design alternatives, but often requires significant amounts of time and money. Extended reality (XR) technologies are changing how products are presented to the user, making virtual prototyping an effective tool for product evaluation. However, it is generally assumed that our perceptual and emotional responses to a product viewed in an XR modality are comparable to those elicited by the physical product. This paper reports the results of a study where a group of participants evaluated three designs of a product (i.e., umbrella stands) when viewed in a real setting, virtual reality (VR), and VR with passive haptics. Our goal was to observe the influence of visual media in product perception, and how the use of a complementary item (i.e., a physical umbrella) for interaction as well as user design expertise influence product assessment. Results show that the Jordan's psycho-pleasure category of assessment was the most affected by the presentation medium, whereas the ideo-pleasure category was the only category not influenced by the medium. We also highlight that the use of VR with passive haptics could be an effective tool for product evaluation, as illustrated by the study of umbrella stands and young consumers. Our study also shows that the user's background does not influence the level of confidence in their responses, but it can influence the assessment of certain product features. Finally, the use of a complementary item for interaction may have a significant effect on product perception.

Modern manufacturing systems rely on the utilization of Computer Numerical Control (CNC) for the manufacturing of products and components. By extension, engineers must be capable of programming machine tools (through Gcode) in order to achieve the desired results. However, this process is time consuming and requires highly skilled and trained personnel. On the other hand, under the Industry 4.0 framework, several cutting-edge digital technologies have been developed in an attempt to improve user perception, such as Extended Reality (XR), which encapsulates Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR), and Virtual Reality (VR). Furthermore, the above-mentioned technologies enable engineers to extend Human-Machine Interaction (HMI) into new dimensions. Therefore, in this research work the design and development of a framework for facilitating engineers during the generation G-code script for machining operations based on the utilization of AR is presented. The MR functionalities will facilitate develop a better perception of the machining processes, as well as support the generation of virtual instructions for shop-floor operators. Further to that, advanced communication functionalities are provisioned based on Cloud technologies, in order to automate the transmission of G-code scripts/instructions to the machine tools.

In absence of haptic feedback, the perception of contact with virtual objects can rapidly become a problem in extended reality (XR) applications. XR developers often rely on visual feedback to inform the user and display contact information. However, as for today, there is no clear path on how to design and assess such visual techniques. In this paper, we propose a design space for the creation of visual feedback techniques meant to represent contact with virtual surfaces in XR. Based on this design space, we conceived a set of various visual techniques, including novel approaches based on onomatopoeia and inspired by cartoons, or visual effects based on physical phenomena. Then, we conducted an online preliminary user study with 60 participants, consisting in assessing 6 visual feedback techniques in terms of user experience. We could notably assess, for the first time, the potential influence of the interaction context by comparing the participants' answers in two different scenarios: industrial versus entertainment conditions. Taken together, our design space and initial results could inspire XR developers for a wide range of applications in which the augmentation of contact seems prominent, such as for vocational training, industrial assembly/maintenance, surgical simulation, videogames, etc.

The advancements in Mixed Reality (MR), Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, and multi-scale collaborative virtual environments have led to new interface opportunities for remote collaboration. This paper explores a novel concept of flying telepresence for multi-scale mixed reality remote collaboration. This work could enable remote collaboration at a larger scale such as building construction. We conducted a user study with three experiments. The first experiment compared two interfaces, static and dynamic IPD, on simulator sickness and body size perception. The second experiment tested the user perception of a virtual object size under three levels of IPD and movement gain manipulation with a fixed eye height in a virtual environment having reduced or rich visual cues. Our last experiment investigated the participant's body size perception for two levels of manipulation of the IPDs and heights using stereo video footage to simulate a flying telepresence experience. The studies found that manipulating IPDs and eye height influenced the user's size perception. We present our findings and share the recommendations for designing a multi-scale MR flying telepresence interface.

This study introduces a cross-modal, tongue-involved interface designed to enrich taste and touch perception within Mixed Reality (MR) environments. It features a novel gear-like mechanism loaded with various favored conductive jellies, forming a cross-modal platform. This interface enables the gear to present different favor units to the user's tongue, activated by specific virtual events. This setup fosters mutual communication and a playful experience between the physical and virtual worlds, leveraging the synesthesia of taste and tactile perceptions.

This paper proposes an interface especially tailored to create a design oriented realistic Mixed Reality (MR) workspace. An MR environment implies a natural mixture between virtual and real objects. We eplore the extension of real objects into the virtual world by having virtual objects attached to them. Also, in order to create a realistic environment, the problems of the occlusions between real and virtual objects are addresed. While providing more intuitive input methods than the conventional desktop modelers or Virtual Reality (VR) immersive systems, our prototype system enables the user to have an accurate perception of the shapes modeled. Thus, the user can recognize correctly the spacial location and real sizes of the models.

What is the future of virtual reality (VR) in the built environment? As work becomes increasingly distributed across remote and hybrid forms of organizing as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a need to rethink how we use the set of collaborative technologies to move toward a sustainable world. We propose a new vision of VR as a discipline-agnostic platform for an interdisciplinary integration of the allied design, social, and environmental disciplines to address emerging challenges across the building sectors. We build this contribution through the following steps. First, we contextualize VR technologies within the changing digital landscape and underlying tensions in the built environment practices. Second, we characterize the difficulties that have arisen in using them to address challenges, illustrating our argument with leading examples. Third, we conceptualize VR configurations and explore underlying assumptions for their use across disciplinary scenarios. Fourth, we propose a vision of VR as a discipline-agnostic platform that can support built environment users in visualizing preferred futures. We conclude by providing directions for research and practice.

In recent years, especially after the outbreak of COVID-19, the applications of distributed collaboration in mixed reality (MR) environment has developed rapidly. Due to the cutting-edge technology and the specialized nature of the equipment, many studies have focused on the design of tutorials in MR, but few studies have taken the factors of emotional design into consideration. Since the perception of the state among users is based on their avatar firstly, which is helpful for users' perceptions about collaborative content in novice guidance. Based on Norman's principles of reflective design and James' theory about the experience self, we built a MR virtual sandtable collaboration system, which contains three guiding parts that are the full practice of theoretical research. Furthermore, We generated three progressive levels of emotional solutions in guidance design and conducted user experience research to explore the impact of three different degrees of emotional design, summarizing the applicable paradigm of novice guidance of emotional design in MR distributed collaborative scenarios. Through the evaluation and analysis of SUS model and task load, we found that novice guidance with a higher emotional design level, which combines static graphics, dynamic hand models and conversational voice would result in a better user experience.

The future of human interaction is virtual. Thus it will require effective collaboration on tasks among users in remote settings. eXtended Reality (XR) is playing a leading role in this transition, offering a realm where virtual collaboration becomes not just possible but essential in situations where physical presence is limited by risk, cost, or complexity. However, while networks are continuously evolving, they can still introduce unexpected impairments that potentially degrade the user perception, i.e., the Quality-of-Experience (QoE), of such Collaborative Virtual Reality (CVR) scenarios. In response to this challenge, this paper presents a demonstrator designed to explicitly showcase the effects of network conditions on CVR. Our platform, centered around a pizza-making game, allows for exploration of the real-time impact of different network parameters, such as packet delay, loss, and throttling on the user engagement and perception in CVR. The framework employs a combination of subjective, objective, and physiological assessments, including the capture of heart rate and skin conductivity, to gain comprehensive insights into user experiences. Our platform not only allows users to directly experience the impact of network impairments on CVR interactions but also provides initial evidence of how such distortions affect both subjective perceptions and objective performance metrics.

Spatial User Interfaces along the Reality-Virtuality continuum heavily depend on accurate depth perception. However, current display technologies still exhibit shortcomings in the simulation of accurate depth cues, and these shortcomings also vary between Virtual or Augmented Reality (VR, AR: eXtended Reality (XR) for short). This article compares depth perception between VR and Video See-Through (VST) AR. We developed a digital twin of an existing office room where users had top erform five depth-dependent tasks in VR and VST AR. Thirty-two participants took part in a user study using a 1 x 4 within-subjects design. Our results reveal higher misjudgment rates in VST AR due to conflicting depth cues between virtual and physical content. Increased head movements observed in participants were interpreted as a compensatory response to these conflicting cues. Furthermore, a longer task completion time in the VST AR condition indicates a lower task performance in VST AR. Interestingly, while participants rated the VR condition as easier and contrary to the increased misjudgments and lower performance with the VST AR display, a majority still expressed a preference for the VST AR experience. We discuss and explain these findings with the high visual dominance and referential power of the physical content in the VST AR condition, leading to a higher spatial presence and plausibility.

Immersive technologies like eXtended Reality (XR) are the next step in videoconferencing. In this context, understanding the effect of delay on communication is crucial. This article presents the first study on the impact of delay on collaborative tasks using a realistic Social XR system. Specifically, we design an experiment and evaluate the impact of end-to-end delays of 300, 600, 900, 1,200, and 1,500 ms on the execution of a standardized task involving the collaboration of two remote users that meet in a virtual space and construct block-based shapes. To measure the impact of the delay in this communication scenario, objective and subjective data were collected. As objective data, we measured the time required to execute the tasks and computed conversational characteristics by analyzing the recorded audio signals. As subjective data, a questionnaire was prepared and completed by every user to evaluate different factors such as overall quality, perception of delay, annoyance using the system, level of presence, cybersickness, and other subjective factors associated with social interaction. The results show a clear influence of the delay on the perceived quality and a significant negative effect as the delay increases. Specifically, the results indicate that the acceptable threshold for end-to-end delay should not exceed 900 ms. This article additionally provides guidelines for developing standardized XR tasks for assessing interaction in Social XR environments.

One of the sectors that is expected to significantly benefit from 5G network deployment is eXtended Reality (XR). Besides the very high bandwidth, reliability, and Quality of Service (QoS) to be delivered to end users, XR also requires accurate environmental perception for safety reasons: this is fundamental when a user, wearing XR equipment, is immersed in a "virtual" world, but moves in a "real" environment. To overcome this limitation (especially when using low-cost XR equipments, such as cardboards worn by the end user), it is possible to exploit the potentialities offered by Internet of Things (IoT) nodes with sensing/actuating capabilities. In this paper, we rely on ultrasonic sensor-based IoT systems to perceive the surrounding environment and to provide "side information" to XR systems, then performing a preliminary experimental characterization campaign with different ultrasonic IoT system configurations worn by the end user. The combination of the information flows associated with XR and IoT components is enabled by 5G technology. An illustrative experimental scenario, relative to a "Tourism 4.0" IoT-aided VR application deployed by Vodafone in Milan, Italy, is presented.

Virtual reality (VR) has invaded the public's awareness through a series of media articles that have promoted it as a new and exciting form of computer interaction. We discuss the extent to which VR may be a useful tool in visualization and attempt to disambiguate the use of VR as a general descriptor for any three-dimensional computer presentation. The argument is presented that, to warrant the use of the term virtual environment (VE), the display should satisfy criteria that arise from the nature of human spatial perception. It directly follows, therefore, that perceptual criteria are the foundations of an effective VE display. We address the task of making a VE system easy to navigate, traverse and engage, by examining the ways in which three-dimensional perception and perception of motion may be supported, and consider the potential conflict that may arise between depth cues. We propose that the design of VE systems must centre on the perceptual-motor capabilities of the user, in the context of the task to be undertaken, and establish what is essential, desirable and optimal in order to maximize the task gains, while minimizing the learning required to operate within three-dimensional interactive displays. (C) 1996 Academic Press Limited

This paper is a review and analysis of the various implementation architectures of diffractive waveguide combiners for augmented reality (AR), mixed reality (MR) headsets, and smart glasses. Extended reality (XR) is another acronym frequently used to refer to all variants across the MR spectrum. Such devices have the potential to revolutionize how we work, communicate, travel, learn, teach, shop, and are entertained. Already, market analysts show very optimistic expectations on return on investment in MR, for both enterprise and consumer applications. Hardware architectures and technologies for AR and MR have made tremendous progress over the past five years, fueled by recent investment hype in start-ups and accelerated mergers and acquisitions by larger corporations. In order to meet such high market expectations, several challenges must be addressed: first, cementing primary use cases for each specific market segment and, second, achieving greater MR performance out of increasingly size-, weight-, cost- and power-constrained hardware. One such crucial component is the optical combiner. Combiners are often considered as critical optical elements in MR headsets, as they are the direct window to both the digital content and the real world for the user's eyes. Two main pillars defining the MR experience are comfort and immersion. Comfort comes in various forms: - wearable comfort-reducing weight and size, pushing back the center of gravity, addressing thermal issues, and so on - visual comfort-providing accurate and natural 3-dimensional cues over a large field of view and a high angular resolution - vestibular comfort-providing stable and realistic virtual overlays that spatially agree with the user's motion - social comfort-allowing for true eye contact, in a socially acceptable form factor. Immersion can be defined as the multisensory perceptual experience (including audio, display, gestures, haptics) that conveys to the user a sense of realism and envelopment. In order to effectively address both comfort and immersion challenges through improved hardware architectures and software developments, a deep understanding of the specific features and limitations of the human visual perception system is required. We emphasize the need for a humancentric optical design process, which would allow for the most comfortable headset design (wearable, visual, vestibular, and social comfort) without compromising the user's sense of immersion (display, sensing, and interaction). Matching the specifics of the display architecture to the human visual perception system is key to bound the constraints of the hardware allowing for headset development and mass production at reasonable costs, while providing a delightful experience to the end user.

As Extended Reality (XR) technologies continue to mature, they offer ever more diverse, complex, and impactful experiences. This paper presents "Therapet", an augmented reality (AR) application designed for AR glasses such as the Hololens 2. Therapet presents an interactive therapeutic pet avatar-using both Volumetric Video (VV) recordings and traditionally animated rigged models-with which users can interact with by feeding, playing fetch, and petting. We conducted a pilot study to investigate usability and user preferences, revealing positive user experiences and insights into the use of (and perceptions towards) Volumetric Video based avatars for interactive AR experiences. Furthermore, we analyze the feasibility of using VV in production (where memory usage and performance are critical factors) and discuss lessons learned to create a successful AR therapeutic pet application.

This poster introduces a fully immersive Mixed Reality system we have recently developed, where the user is free to walk inside a virtual scenario while wearing a HMD. The novelty of the system lies in the fact that users can see and use their real hands -by means of a Kinect-like camera mounted on the HMD - in order to naturally interact with the virtual objects. Our working hypothesis are that the introduction of the photorealistic capture of users' hands in a coherently rendered virtual scenario induces in them a strong feeling of presence and embodiment without the need of using a synthetic 3D modelled avatar as a representation of the self. We also argue that the users' ability of grasping and manipulating virtual objects using their own hands not only provides an intuitive interaction experience, but also improves self-perception as well as the perception of the environment.

The importance of the topic of this paper is caused by the rapid development of virtual, mixed, and augmented reality systems. A problem in designing virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR) and mixed reality (MR) systems is the assessment of the visual perception of the result, in particular, the assessment of discomfort caused either by differences in the illumination conditions of objects in the real and virtual worlds or by the conflict of the vergence and accommodation of vision of the device user. The standard optical characteristics, such as aberration, frequency and contrast characteristic, and others are not applicable to evaluating the discomfort of visual perception. On the other hand, the discomfort can be assessed using a real proptotype; however, its fabrication can be labor consuming and expensive. We propose methods for virtual prototyping of visual optical systems that can be used in designing AR, VR, and MR devices for the analysis of discomfort caused, for example, by the vergence-accommodation conflict in virtual and augmented reality systems or by differences in the illumination conditions of real and virtual scene objects in mixed reality systems.

In this paper we propose a reduced reality concept of less-is-more that VR designers can use to create technological frameworks that reduce sensory overload and allow for better concentration and focus, less stress, and novel scenarios. We question the approach taken by scholars in the field of XR research, where the focus is typically to design and use technology that adds sensory information to the user's perceptual field and we address some of the confusion related to the typical uses of the term reality. To address the latter terminological muddle, we define reality as our conscious experience of the environment as emergent perception and we use this definition as the basis for a discussion of the role of sound in balancing sensory information and in the construction of a less cluttered and less stressful perceptual environments.

Mixed reality technology can be applied to simulation training, improve surgical performance, enhance 3D game experience, and so on, attracting extensive attention of researchers. The perception of the user about head-mounted display MR using HoloLens is critical, especially for precision applications such as virtual hoisting. Designing and adding appropriate depth cues in MR scenes is an effective way to improve users' depth perception. In this study, taking virtual hoisting training system as an example, the depth perception strategy of multi-cue fusion is proposed to improve the perception effect. Based on the mechanism of human depth perception, five kinds of depth cues are designed. The depth perception effect of adding single cue is studied by perceptual matching experiment. Based on the principle of fuzzy clustering, a multiple-cue comprehensive depth optimization strategy on viewing distance scale is proposed. Finally, the perceptual matching results demonstrate the effectiveness of the multi-cue fusion strategy, and the average error is reduced by 20.68% compared with the single-cue strategy, which can significantly improve the spatial depth perception. This research can provide a reference for improving users' depth perception in interactive MR simulation systems. Designing and adding appropriate depth cues in MR scenes is an effective way to improve users' depth perception. The perceptual matching results demonstrate the effectiveness of the depth perception strategy of multi-cue fusion. The multi-cue fusion strategy can significantly improve the spatial depth perception. image

Landmarks are essential and widely used in human navigation. However, many indoor environments lack visually salient landmarks, which leads to difficulties in navigating in and learning complex and similar-looking indoor environments. In this study, we designed and implemented virtual semantic landmarks in Mixed Reality (MR)-based indoor environments and conducted a user study to explore whether such landmarks can assist spatial knowledge acquisition during navigation. More specifically, we employed the untethered, head-mounted mixed reality device Microsoft HoloLens and used iconic holograms to show the semantic landmarks. In the user study, we used sketch map, landmark locating tasks and interview to assess the results of the spatial knowledge acquisition and collect advice on improving the MR-based navigation interface. The results show that virtual semantic landmarks can assist the acquisition of corresponding knowledge, as such landmarks were labeled second most often in landmark locating task. In addition, individual cases show that head-mounted mixed reality devices may influence not only vision, but also height or time perception of certain users. Our result can be applied to facilitate the design of MR-based navigation interfaces and assist spatial knowledge acquisition.

The ongoing development of eXtended Reality (XR) technologies is supporting a rapid increase of their performances along with a progressive decrease of their costs, making them more and more attractive for a large class of consumers. As a result, their widespread use is expected within the next few years. This may foster new opportunities for e-commerce strategies, giving birth to an XR-based commerce (x-commerce) ecosystem. With respect to web and mobile-based shopping experiences, x-commerce could more easily support brick-and-mortar store-like experiences. One interesting and consolidated one amounts to the interactions among customers and shop assistants inside fashion stores. In this work, we concentrate on such aspects with the design and implementation of an XR-based shopping experience, where vocal dialogues with an Amazon Alexa virtual assistant are supported, to experiment with a more natural and familiar contact with the store environment. To verify the validity of such an approach, we asked a group of fashion experts to try two different XR store experiences: with and without the voice assistant integration. The users are then asked to answer a questionnaire to rate their experiences. The results support the hypothesis that vocal interactions may contribute to increasing the acceptance and comfortable perception of XR-based fashion shopping.

We propose Balanced Glass Design, a flavor perception changing system. The system consists of glass-type device shifting its center of gravity in response to the user's motion which allows drinking a beverage with a virtual perception of weight through drinking motion. We thought It's possible to intervene in the user's perception of flavor by displaying virtual weight perception, and so conducted demonstrations as a user study. In this paper, we describe the system design and comments obtained through a user study.

With the rapid development of 3R (VR, AR, MR) technology, there are higher continuously requirements for enhanced interaction characteristics of immersive, interactivity and multi-perception. As a new emerging information technology, 3R provide a potential solution to promote interaction and fusion for digital twin technology between physical space and virtual space, then provide various manufacturing service. This paper compare the interaction characteristics between VR, AR, and MR, then design a enhanced interaction framework based on VR, AR and MR in digital twin. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Rapid advances in technology gradually realize immersive mixed-reality (MR) telepresence between distant spaces. This paper presents a novel visual guidance system for avatar-mediated telepresence, directing users to optimal placements that facilitate the clear transfer of gaze and pointing contexts through remote avatars in dissimilar spaces, where the spatial relationship between the remote avatar and the interaction targets may differ from that of the local user. Representing the spatial relationship between the user/avatar and interaction targets with angle-based interaction features, we assign recommendation scores of sampled local placements as their maximum feature similarity with remote placements. These scores are visualized as color-coded 2D sectors to inform the users of better placements for interaction with selected targets. In addition, virtual objects of the remote space are overlapped with the local space for the user to better understand the recommendations. We examine whether the proposed score measure agrees with the actual user perception of the partner's interaction context and find a score threshold for recommendation through user experiments in virtual reality (VR). A subsequent user study in VR investigates the effectiveness and perceptual overload of different combinations of visualizations. Finally, we conduct a user study in an MR telepresence scenario to evaluate the effectiveness of our method in real-world applications.

User spatial perception in different virtual environments may vary based on specific user characteristics and the features of the Virtual Reality (VR) system. This research explored the impacts of user characteristics such as age, gender, and design knowledge on spatial decision-making by comparing an Immersive Virtual Reality Interactive Environment (IVRIE) with a traditional Virtual Reality system (also known as desktop-based Virtual Reality system, abbreviated herein as the DT system). Users' spatial perceptions when using IVRIE and a DT system were studied with regard to the features of the different systems, including the types of immersion and interaction, users' perceptions of human body scale, and how the environments were explored. The factors affecting the two systems included texture variation, type of enclosure, and spatial function. Inferential testing using quantitative data was applied to identify differences between the two systems in terms of participants' actual design outcomes. The results showed that based on the type, spatial characteristics, and texture of spaces, perception filters could have both active and inactive roles in impacting the spatial decision-making of participants between the two systems. In addition, between the two systems, participant characteristics had more impact on size variations for both types of spaces-fully enclosed and corridors-for accommodating larger groups.

Within the emerging research area represented by robotic gaming and, specifically, in application domains in which the recent literature suggests to combine commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) robots and projected mixed reality (MR) technology in order to develop engaging games, one of the crucial issues to consider in the design process is how to make the player perceive the robot as having a key role, i.e., to valorize its presence from the user experience point of view. By moving from this consideration, this paper reports efforts that are being carried out with the aim to investigate the impact of diverse game design choices in the above perspective, while at the same time extracting preliminary insights that can be exploited to orient further research in the field of MR-based robotic gaming and related scenarios.

Designing for rapport with virtual agents is one of the key success factors for delivering engaging and motivating virtual experiences. This paper presents the results of the study on rapport with virtual agent "Anna" who acts as a personal virtual trainer in a gamified, simulated mixed reality (MR) environment for physical training of senior trainees with hypertension. The exploratory study with 22 senior participants over 65 years old applied an adapted rapport scale to measure cognitive, affective and interactional rapport. Results from the survey and interviews show that imitating movements of the virtual trainer received highest values and that agent generated behaviour was essential for establishing rapport. The paper explores the relationships between the rapport scores and the perception of senior users of a range of characteristics of the virtual agent such as body, head, hand and facial and verbal expression.

The use of immersive virtual reality has been considered a beneficial strategy for architectural design. Many studies on this topic, however, avoid discussing the extent to which this technology offers better support to design practices compared to non-immersive virtual reality platforms. Nonetheless, this knowledge is precisely what would justify a wider adoption of immersive systems by the AEC industry. In this context, this study sought to quantitatively verify the ability of a particular immersive system in providing users with a better spatial understanding of the virtual mock-up. The method compares users' spatial perception using a conventional workstation versus an immersive platform. Findings indicate an overall better spatial perception of the virtual model when using the immersive environment. The study concludes that the immersive environment may benefit current design practices by improving professionals' understanding of the spatial arrangement of the virtual model.

Immersive Virtual Environments (IVEs), particularly Mixed-Reality (MR) technologies, continue to have an increasing impact on design processes and design education. This study focuses on MR's potentials in Basic Design (BD) education and its influence on novice designers' design thinking abilities. In this study, through a newly developed MR-based design framework, DesignMR, a comparative analysis between design processes in MR and the physical environment is presented. A hybrid evaluation methodology is used in the context of three-dimensional (3D) BD tasks through two sets of protocol studies: Linkography and exit interviews. Linkography is a method to analyze the design process based on detecting design moves and their links with each other. In this study, linkographic analyses point to an increase in critical moves and link index values in MR as compared to the physical environment for all participants. This indicates that MR can trigger improved creativity, design productivity, and design exploration by idea generation. Exit interviews highlighted the positive impact of DesignMR on the motivation, work efficiency, and 3D perception of the participants. Further research will be pursued for improved hand gestures to increase the effectiveness of object interaction. Z8 0

With the rise of Metaverse, Extended Reality (XR) and its enabling techniques have received increasing attention. Spatial gaze tracking is one of these techniques that enables capturing a user's visual attention, so as to support immersive 3D experience and interaction. Due to the limitations in the employed visual models and algorithms, the existing proposals of gaze tracking can only provide planar gaze tracking or approximate spatial gaze tracking. A critical problem behind is that so far there isn't an accurate and efficient approach for XR devices to sense the spatial gaze, that are modeled based on the vergence of the binocular visual axes. To address this problem, this paper proposes SpatialGaze, a spatial gaze tracking approach based on the realistic parallax-contingent visual model. SpatialGaze contains a tailored design for XR devices, which is accurate, lightweight, and practical for use. Our implementation and evaluation demonstrate that SpatialGaze achieves an average error of 0.52 degrees in direction tracking and an average error of 75.52 cm in depth perception. Compared to the baseline approach, SpatialGaze reduces the direction and depth errors by up to 52.62 and 75.15%, respectively.

Mixed reality (MR) interactions feature users interacting with a combination of virtual and physical components. Inspired by research investigating aspects associated with near-field interactions in augmented and virtual reality (AR & VR), we investigated how avatarization, the physicality of the interacting components, and the interaction technique used to manipulate a virtual object affected performance and perceptions of user experience in a mixed reality fundamentals of laparoscopic peg-transfer task wherein users had to transfer a virtual ring from one peg to another for a number of trials. We employed a 3 (Physicality of pegs) X 3 (Augmented Avatar Representation) X 2 (Interaction Technique) multi-factorial design, manipulating the physicality of the pegs as a between-subjects factor, the type of augmented self-avatar representation, and the type of interaction technique used for object-manipulation as within-subjects factors. Results indicated that users were significantly more accurate when the pegs were virtual rather than physical because of the increased salience of the task-relevant visual information. From an avatar perspective, providing users with a reach envelope-extending representation, though useful, was found to worsen performance, while co-located avatarization significantly improved performance. Choosing an interaction technique to manipulate objects depends on whether accuracy or efficiency is a priority. Finally, the relationship between the avatar representation and interaction technique dictates just how usable mixed reality interactions are deemed to be.

Virtual Reality (VR) systems are widely used, and it is essential to know if spatial perception in virtual environments (VEs) is similar to reality. Research indicates that users tend to underestimate distances in VR. Prior work suggests that actual distance judgments in VR may not always match the users self-reported preference of where they think they most accurately estimated distances. However, no explicit investigation evaluated whether user preferences match actual performance in a spatial judgment task. We used blind walking to explore potential dissimilarities between actual distance estimates and user-selected preferences of visual complexities, VE conditions, and targets. Our findings show a gap between user preferences and actual performance when visual complexities were varied, which has implications for better visual perception understanding, VR applications design, and research in spatial perception, indicating the need to calibrate and align user preferences and true spatial perception abilities in VR.

Extended reality (XR) technologies such as virtual reality (VR) provide a promising alternative for training users through serious games (SGs). VR SGs allow people to train in emergency scenarios and improve their likelihood of survival in high-risk situations. Studies have shown that incorporating design elements such as wayfinding cues enhances the spatial knowledge of users in VR. However, the impact of these wayfinding cues on users' psychological and psychometric behaviors needs thorough investigation. An SG was designed to investigate wayfinding cues' psychological and psychometric effects on user-perceived experiences in an immersive VR environment. Thirty-nine participants experienced three variants of the VR SG using Oculus Rift- S. Participants in the control condition were exposed to the VR with no wayfinding cues, and the experimental groups were exposed to VR with static and dynamic wayfinding cues. Results showed that VR SG with wayfinding cues induced less tension, challenge, and negative affects in users' overall perceived experience. Similarly higher positive affects were observed for the experimental groups with wayfinding cues. It was interesting to observe that there were no significant effects of wayfinding on competence, flow, and immersion; however, heart rate was significantly high in the control group. These findings suggest that wayfinding cues can promote the users perceived quality of experience in the VR.

This article presents a novel extended reality (XR) and deep-learning-based Internet-of-Medical-Things (IoMT) solution for the COVID-19 telemedicine diagnostic, which systematically combines virtual reality/augmented reality (AR) remote surgical plan/rehearse hardware, customized 5G cloud computing and deep learning algorithms to provide real-time COVID-19 treatment scheme clues. Compared to existing perception therapy techniques, our new technique can significantly improve performance and security. The system collected 25 clinic data from the 347 positive and 2270 negative COVID-19 patients in the Red Zone by 5G transmission. After that, a novel auxiliary classifier generative adversarial network-based intelligent prediction algorithm is conducted to train the new COVID-19 prediction model. Furthermore, The Copycat network is employed for the model stealing and attack for the IoMT to improve the security performance. To simplify the user interface and achieve an excellent user experience, we combined the Red Zone's guiding images with the Green Zone's view through the AR navigate clue by using 5G. The XR surgical plan/rehearse framework is designed, including all COVID-19 surgical requisite details that were developed with a real-time response guaranteed. The accuracy, recall, F-1-score, and area under the ROC curve (AUC) area of our new IoMT were 0.92, 0.98, 0.95, and 0.98, respectively, which outperforms the existing perception techniques with significantly higher accuracy performance. The model stealing also has excellent performance, with the AUC area of 0.90 in Copycat slightly lower than the original model. This study suggests a new framework in the COVID-19 diagnostic integration and opens the new research about the integration of XR and deep learning for IoMT implementation.

This paper introduces and investigates the use of subtle visual cues in Mixed Reality (MR) interfaces to blend digital content with the physical world, enhancing user experience. With Extended Reality (XR) technologies becoming more common, creating immersive environments that effectively combine digital and physical elements is crucial. Traditional MR methods often inadequately integrate 2D and 3D digital content into physical settings. This research addresses these issues by incorporating visual cues such as shadows, lighting, textures, blur, and distortions into MR interfaces. These cues are designed to enhance the perception of objects within the physical environment, intuitively convey information, and minimize conventional interface distractions. The paper includes multiple use cases and user tests to evaluate the effectiveness of these cues. The results inform design enhancements, striving to better integrate visual cues in XR to bridge the gap between digital content and the physical world. This study advances MR by demonstrating how subtle visual adjustments can improve user interactions, making digital elements appear as natural components of the user's environment.

PurposeIn recent years, there has been significant interest in adopting XR (extended reality) technologies such as VR (virtual reality) and AR (augmented reality), particularly in retail. However, extending activities through reality-mediation is still mostly believed to offer an inferior experience due to their shortcomings in usability, wearability, graphical fidelity, etc. This study aims to address the research gap by experimentally examining the acceptance of metaverse shopping.Design/methodology/approachThis study conducts a 2 (VR: with vs. without) x 2 (AR: with vs. without) between-subjects laboratory experiment involving 157 participants in simulated daily shopping environments. This study builds a physical brick-and-mortar store at the campus and stocked it with approximately 600 products with accompanying product information and pricing. The XR devices and a 3D laser scanner were used in constructing the three XR shopping conditions.FindingsResults indicate that XR can offer an experience comparable to, or even surpassing, traditional shopping in terms of its instrumental and hedonic aspects, regardless of a slightly reduced perception of usability. AR negatively affected perceived ease of use, while VR significantly increased perceived enjoyment. It is surprising that the lower perceived ease of use appeared to be disconnected from the attitude toward metaverse shopping.Originality/valueThis study provides important experimental evidence on the acceptance of XR shopping, and the finding that low perceived ease of use may not always be detrimental adds to the theory of technology adoption as a whole. Additionally, it provides an important reference point for future randomized controlled studies exploring the effects of technology on adoption.

Social virtual reality (SVR) is a novel technology that can simulate and potentially enhance our face-to-face interactions. However, our understanding of interpersonal communication in SVR is still limited. To address this research gap, we describe how SVR enables social exchange (i.e., fundamental communication patterns of trust and reciprocity between individuals), which is closely related to virtual team performance. We present an information systems design theory for social exchange in SVR-enabled virtual teams (SE-SVR). Drawing from affordance theory and social exchange theory, we describe how SVR material properties (i.e., avatars, virtual objects, virtual space, and verbal and nonverbal communication features) enable and foster social exchange in SVR. As a theoretical contribution, we propose design principles for social exchange in SVR and connect them with testable theoretical propositions. Furthermore, we present the concept of interacting with presence, which facilitates users' affordance perceptions in SVR. We conceptually validate our design principles and illustrate our design through an artifact instantiation: XR Campus, which is a minimum viable product of a collaborative platform for the ECIU University. Our SE-SVR theory has important research and practice implications because it explains how critical aspects of organizational remote communication can be considered in SVR design.

Augmented reality technologies allow people to view and interact with virtual objects that appear alongside physical objects in the real world. For augmented reality applications to be effective, users must be able to accurately perceive the intended real world location of virtual objects. However, when creating augmented reality applications, developers are faced with a variety of design decisions that may affect user perceptions regarding the real world depth of virtual objects. In this paper, we conducted two experiments using a perceptual matching task to understand how shading, cast shadows, aerial perspective, texture, dimensionality (i.e., 2D vs. 3D shapes) and billboarding affected participant perceptions of virtual object depth relative to real world targets. The results of these studies quantify trade-offs across virtual object designs to inform the development of applications that take advantage of users' visual abilities to better blend the physical and virtual world.

Mixed Reality (MR) technologies are rapidly establishing themselves in the space industry. From assisting with assembling the Orion capsule via Augmented Reality (AR) to using highly immersive virtual environments for astronaut training, MR technologies provide a powerful mechanism to alter the perception of the physical world and deliver realistic personalized visual stimuli to users. In this paper, we discuss a novel strategy to utilize MR technologies as a design element to enhance the interior architecture of the space habitat and enrich the inhabitants' personal experience. We discuss two scenarios that entail long duration missions as well as a customized experience for space tourists in Low Earth Orbit (LEO). We report a series of spacecraft volumetric studies of the ergonomics associated with the application of MR technologies. Physical, Virtual and Combined experiences mapped within the volumes with respect to crew ConOps provide a basis for further analysis and are translated to architectural design requirements that inform criteria for the development of personalized MR-based visualizations. The paper concludes with a discussion of directions for future research and design-based investigations. Compilations of mission-influencing factors such as launch mass and volume reduction per habitat, technology limitations and integration requirements are presented and evaluated by the level of importance for achieving mission goals and objectives. Z8 0

The availability of depth sensing technology in smartphones and tablets adds spatial awareness as an interaction modality to mobile entertainment experiences and showcases the potential of Mixed Reality (MR) for creating immersive and engaging experiences in real world contexts. However, the lack of design knowledge about interactions within MR represents a barrier to creating effective entertainment experiences. Faced with this challenge, we contribute a study of three navigation styles (NS) for MR experiences shown on a handheld device. The navigation styles range from fully virtual, through a mixed style that involves both on-screen and in-world activity, to fully real navigation. Our findings suggest that when designing an MR experience, the navigation style deployed should reflect the context, content and required interactions. For our MR experience, "The Old Pharmacy", with its specific content, context and required interactions, results show that navigation styles relying on in-world activity leads to higher levels of Presence, Immersion and Flow.

In virtual/augmented/mixed reality (VR/AR/MR) applications, rendering soft virtual objects using a hand-held haptic device is challenging due to the anatomical restrictions of the hand and the ungrounded nature of the design, which affect the selection of actuators and sensors and hence limit the resolution and range of forces displayed by the device. We developed a cable-driven haptic device for rendering the net forces involved in grasping and squeezing 3D virtual compliant (soft) objects being held between the index finger and thumb only. Using the proposed device, we investigate the perception of soft objects in virtual environments. We show that the range of object stiffness that can be effectively conveyed to a user in virtual environments (VEs) can be significantly expanded by controlling the relationship between the visual and haptic cues. We propose that a single variable, named Apparent Stiffness Difference, can predict the pattern of human stiffness perception under manipulated conflict, which can be used for rendering a range of soft objects in VEs larger than what is achievable by a haptic device alone due to its physical limits.

Industry 4.0 is moving forward under technology upgrades, utilizing information technology to improve the intelligence of the industry, whereas Industry 5.0 is value-driven, aiming to focus on essential societal needs, values, and responsibility. The manufacturing industry is currently moving towards the integration of productivity enhancements and sustainable human employment. Such a transformation has deeply changed the human-machine interaction (HMI), among which digital twin (DT) and extended reality (XR) are two cutting-edge technologies. A manufacturing DT offers an opportunity to simulate, monitor, and optimize the machine. In the meantime, XR empowers HMI in the industrial field. This paper presents an XR application framework for DT-based services within a manufacturing context. This work aims to develop a technological framework to improve the efficiency of the XR application development and the usability of the XR-based HMI systems. We first introduce four layers of the framework, including the perception layer with the physical machine and its ROS-based simulation model, the machine communication layer, the network layer containing three kinds of communication middleware, and the Unity-based service layer creating XR-based digital applications. Subsequently, we conduct the responsiveness test for the framework and describe several XR industrial applications for a DT-based smart crane. Finally, we highlight the research challenges and potential issues that should be further addressed by analyzing the performance of the whole framework.

This paper is a discussion on the question of ecological validity of virtual reality in the light of three studies that we have done in previous works. These works are chosen as a basis for the discussion because they are all designed to assess validity using one method: the comparison of user perception and behavior between real and virtual environments. The first study explores visual perception of complex materials, the second studies the role of visual feedback on user gestures and object manipulation, the third is a study of virtual reality as a tool for assessing the acceptability of human robot collaboration in a car factory. We discuss our methodology, the limits of validity of VR in our three use cases and suggest future developments in VR to provide design tools for more valid VR environments.

In mixed-reality (MR) telecollaboration, the local environment is remotely presented to a remote user wearing a virtual reality (VR) head-mounted display (HMD) via a video capture device. However, remote users frequently face challenges in naturally and actively manipulating their viewpoints. In this paper, we propose a telepresence system with viewpoint control, which involves a robotic arm equipped with a stereo camera in the local environment. This system enables remote users to actively and flexibly observe the local environment by moving their heads to manipulate the robotic arm. Additionally, to solve the problem of the limited field of view of the stereo camera and limited movement range of the robotic arm, we propose a 3D reconstruction method combined with a stereo video field-of-view enhancement technique to guide remote users to move within the movement range of the robotic arm and provide them with a larger range of local environment perception. Finally, a mixed-reality telecollaboration prototype was built, and two user studies were conducted to evaluate the overall system. User study A evaluated the interaction efficiency, system usability, workload, copresence, and user satisfaction of our system from the remote user's perspective, and the results showed that our system can effectively improve the interaction efficiency while achieving a better user experience than two traditional view-sharing techniques based on 360 video and based on the local user's first-person view. User study B evaluated our MR telecollaboration system prototype from both the remote-user side and the local-user side as a whole, providing directions and suggestions for the subsequent design and improvement of our mixed-reality telecollaboration system.

The use of metaphors in designing Virtual Environments unifies design elements and improves efficiency and interaction. Metaphors informing VE design relate visual and sonic cues and structural elements using a connecting theme. Thematic design based on metaphor capitalises on iconic familiarity and existing user experience. The design metaphor affects relational and virtual reality perception of directedness, enclosure, engagement, navigation and presence. The design metaphor relates semantic-based construction processes and agent behaviours.

Visualizing biosignals can be important for social Virtual Reality (VR), where avatar non-verbal cues are missing. While several biosignal representations exist, designing effective visualizations and understanding user perceptions within social VR entertainment remains unclear. We adopt a mixed-methods approach to design biosignals for social VR entertainment. Using survey (N=54), context-mapping (N=6), and co-design (N=6) methods, we derive four visualizations. We then ran a within-subjects study (N=32) in a virtual jazz-bar to investigate how heart rate (HR) and breathing rate (BR) visualizations, and signal rate, influence perceived avatar arousal, user distraction, and preferences. Findings show that skeuomorphic visualizations for both biosignals allow differentiable arousal inference; skeuomorphic and particles were least distracting for HR, whereas all were similarly distracting for BR; biosignal perceptions often depend on avatar relations, entertainment type, and emotion inference of avatars versus spaces. We contribute HR and BR visualizations, and considerations for designing social VR entertainment biosignal visualizations.

In this paper, we propose Balanced Glass Design, a system to change flavor perception. The system consists of glass-type device shifting its center of gravity in response to the user's motion which allows drinking a beverage with a virtual perception of weight through drinking motion. We thought It's possible to intervene in the user's perception of flavor by displaying virtual weight perception, and so conducted experiments on weight perception and demonstrations as a user study. This paper describes the system design, the result of experiments, and comments obtained through a user study.

Reaching towards out-of-sight objects during walking is a common task in daily life, however the same task can be challenging when wearing immersive Head-Mounted Displays (HMD). In this paper, we investigate the effects of spatial reference frame, walking path curvature, and target placement relative to the body on user performance of manually acquiring out-of-sight targets located around their bodies, as they walk in a spatial-mapping Mixed Reality (MR) environment wearing an immersive HMD. We found that walking and increased path curvature negatively affected the overall spatial accuracy of the performance, and that the performance benefited more from using the torso as the reference frame than the head. We also found that targets placed at maximum reaching distance yielded less error in angular rotation and depth of the reaching arm. We discuss our findings with regard to human walking kinesthetics and the sensory integration in the peripersonal space during locomotion in immersive MR. We provide design guidelines for future immersive MR experience featuring spatial mapping and full-body motion tracking to provide better embodied experience.

Real chemical experiments may be dangerous or pollute the environment; meanwhile, the preparation of drugs and reagents is time-consuming. Due to the above-mentioned reasons, few experiments can be actually operated by students, which is not conducive to the chemistry learning and the phenomena principle understanding. Recently, due to the impact of Covid-19, many schools adopt online teaching, which is even more detrimental to students' learning of chemistry. Fortunately, MR(mixed reality) technology provides us with the possibility of solving the safety issues and breaking the space-time constraints, while the theory of human needs (Maslow's hierarchical needs) provides us with a way to design a comfortable and stimulant MR system with realistic visual presentation and interaction. The paper combines with the theory of human needs to propose a new needs model for virtual experiment. Based on this needs model, we design and develop a comprehensive MR system called MagicChem, which offers a robust 6-DoF interactive and illumination consistent experimental space with virtual-real occlusion, supporting realistic visual interaction, tangible interaction, gesture interaction with touching, voice interaction, temperature interaction, olfactory interaction and virtual human interaction. User study shows that MagicChem satisfies the needs model better than other MR experimental environments that partially meet the needs model. In addition, we explore the application of the needs model in VR environment. Z8 0

The main component of any Virtual Reality (VR) system is the human user. The ways in which a VR system shapes human experience can affect design outcomes. This research explores the differences in spatial perception between an immersive Virtual Reality Interactive Environment (IVRIE) and traditional Virtual Reality (also known as a desktop-based Virtual Reality system, abbreviated herein as the DT system). Spatial perception and the cognition of the spatial factors of virtual spaces were studied based on different features of the two systems, including the sense of immersion, forms of interaction, experience of human scale, and movement through virtual spaces. This study focused on determining how users' spatial decision making and performance were affected by differences in spatial perception created by the IVRIE and DT systems. Factors examined included the differences between and within the two virtual systems, based on differences in texture, system usage sequence, and the complexity of the experiential/spatial guidelines. Descriptive and inferential statistical testing using quantitative and qualitative data were used to find differences in spatial perception and decision making. The results showed significant space size variations produced by participants between and within the two different VR systems.

Retargeting methods that modify the visual representation of real movements have been widely used to expand the interaction space and create engaging virtual reality experiences. For optimal user experience and performance, it is essential to specify users' perceptions of retargeting and utilize the appropriate range of modification parameters. However, previous studies mostly concentrated on whether users perceived the target sense or not and rarely examined the perceptual accuracy and sensitivity to retargeting. Moreover, it is unknown how the perception and performance in hand-retargeted interactions are influenced by multisensory feedback congruent with the visual modifications in VR. In this study, we used rigorous psychophysical methods to specify users' perceptual accuracy and sensitivity to hand-retargeting and provide acceptable ranges of retargeting parameters. We also presented different multisensory feedback congruent with the movement of the virtual hand to probe its effect on users' perception and task performance. The experimental results showed that providing continuous multisensory feedback, proportionate to the distance between the virtual hand and the targeted destination, heightened the accuracy of users' perception of hand retargeting without altering their perceptual sensitivity. Furthermore, the utilization of congruent multisensory feedback considerably improved the precision of task performance, particularly at lower gain factors. Based on these findings, we propose design guidelines and potential applications of VR hand-retargeted interactions and congruent multisensory feedback for optimal user experience and performance. Z8 0

The vision of virtual reality, since Ivan Sutherland's first head mounted device in 1968, has been the re-creation of reality, something indistinguishable from reality, akin to what was depicted in the 1999 film, The Matrix. However, researchers and developers have largely favored visual perception over other senses, leading to the design of virtual worlds that perhaps look real but do not feel real. This favoring of the visual sense and more recently visual and audio senses, overlooks theory in psychology and phenomenology that places embodied action at the center of perception. That is to say, it is the virtual environment's ability to support and enable user actions that impacts perception and perhaps by extension, the user's sense of presence, not just the visual fidelity. Starting with Gibson's approach to action-based perception, we proposed a 4-D framework for creating virtual reality experiences that seamlessly blend extrinsic elements such as the user's real world context with intrinsic elements such as the hardware specifications, application, and interactive content, with the goal to enable a higher sense of presence.

This research focuses on the possibility of building an alternative mixed reality (MR) system, which will eliminate all its main causes of visual discomfort and form a model of the real world in the virtual space, as much as possible corresponding to it. The relationship between virtual reality (VR) systems, which are limited to models of their own virtual world, and MR systems, which add virtual objects to the real world, is examined. This paper presents an approach based on generating a point cloud of static objects using RGB-D sensors of the MR device, its further classification and segmentation, and then searching for a similar CAD object in the appropriate database. The found virtual analogue, after appropriate transformations, replaces the real object of the scene. To create more realism, RGB images of real objects can be superimposed as textures on the corresponding virtual scene objects. The paper proposes a multimodal approach, which consists in searching for objects with similar modalities in databases. A virtual scene created in a single space using this approach eliminates the possibility of forming unnatural lighting and observation conditions for all objects, including virtual copies of real objects and added virtual objects.

Examples of mixed reality mobile applications and research combining virtual and real world data in the same view have emerged during recent years. However, currently there is little knowledge of users' perceptions comparing the role of virtual and real world representations in mobile user interfaces ( UIs). In this paper, we investigate the initial user perceptions when comparing augmented reality and augmented virtuality UIs in a mobile application. To chart this, we conducted a field study with 35 participants, where they interacted with a simulated mobile mixed reality (MMR) application with two alternative UI designs, and an online survey completed by over a hundred people. Our findings reveal perceived differences e.g. in immersion, recognition, clarity and overall pleasantness, and provide insight to user interface design and methodological challenges of research in the area of mobile mixed reality.

In this poster, we investigate novel user-centered methods and techniques for cross-virtuality user journeys for designing in-vehicle experiences. We argue that rapid prototyping of automotive human-machine interfaces (HMIs) can be achieved with mixed reality technology along the reality-virtuality (RV) continuum. For example, standalone virtual reality (VR) head-mounted displays (HMDs) coupled with hand-worn controllers can be utilized to prototype AR interfaces such as windshield displays (WSDs) in order to facilitate an increased level of visual and spatial perception. Subsequently, the prototyped design in VR could be transferred to an AR interface (e.g., using an AR HMD) for further refinements in real-world settings. We believe that transitional interfaces in the automotive domain have the potential to fundamentally improve the design and development of novel in-vehicle visualization and interaction modalities, as well as to enhance user-centered and non-driving related collaborative activities for automated vehicles.

Artificial Intelligence (AI) covers a broad spectrum of computational problems and use cases. Many of those implicate profound and sometimes intricate questions of how humans interact or should interact with AIs. Moreover, many users or future users do have abstract ideas of what AI is, significantly depending on the specific embodiment of AI applications. Human-centered-design approaches would suggest evaluating the impact of different embodiments on human perception of and interaction with AI. An approach that is difficult to realize due to the sheer complexity of application fields and embodiments in reality. However, here XR opens new possibilities to research human-AI interactions. The article's contribution is twofold: First, it provides a theoretical treatment and model of human-AI interaction based on an XR-AI continuum as a framework for and a perspective of different approaches of XR-AI combinations. It motivates XR-AI combinations as a method to learn about the effects of prospective human-AI interfaces and shows why the combination of XR and AI fruitfully contributes to a valid and systematic investigation of human-AI interactions and interfaces. Second, the article provides two exemplary experiments investigating the aforementioned approach for two distinct AI-systems. The first experiment reveals an interesting gender effect in human-robot interaction, while the second experiment reveals an Eliza effect of a recommender system. Here the article introduces two paradigmatic implementations of the proposed XR testbed for human-AI interactions and interfaces and shows how a valid and systematic investigation can be conducted. In sum, the article opens new perspectives on how XR benefits human-centered AI design and development.

Previous research results have emphasized the influence of avatar representations on user perception in virtual environments, including presence and embodiment. It has been reported that realistic hands present a strong sense of presence and body ownership, while there is a controversy about the sense of agency. This paper investigates the influence of virtual hand representation on user perception and the association between the sense of body ownership and agency. An experiment based on virtual reality was designed with hand representations of different levels of realism to collect users' perception data through questionnaires, and the Spearman correlation was adopted to analyze the relationship between body ownership and agency. The results show that realistic hand induces the higher sense of presence and body ownership, but there is no significant difference in the sense of agency. Moreover, a positive correlation between body ownership and agency in virtual environments was found.

The existing virtual experiment platform mainly uses virtual reality technology or animation technology to assist students in experimental teaching, but it lacks the standardized supervision of users' experimental behaviors. To address the above problems, this paper designs a prototype smart glove application for middle school experimental scenarios and proposes a scene perception algorithm based on the smart glove, so as to obtain the user's experimental behavior more accurately. Based on the perception of the experimental scene, this paper also proposes a multimodal fusion of intelligent navigation interaction paradigm to obtain the user's experimental intention, thus allowing students to conduct exploratory experiments on a virtual experimental platform with targeted guidance and monitoring of user behavior. Experiments show that the smart glove designed in this paper can sense the relative relationship between experimental equipment and objects in the scene in real time. Based on the user's experimental behavior, the smart glove can also infer the operator's experimental intent and provide timely feedback and guidance on the user's experimental behavior.

Modern games make creative use of First- and Third-person perspectives (FPP and TPP) to allow the player to explore virtual worlds. Traditionally, FPP and TPP perspectives are seen as distinct concepts. Yet, Virtual Reality (VR) allows for fexibility in choosing perspectives. We introduce the notion of a perspective continuum in VR, which is technically related to the camera position and conceptually to how users perceive their environment in VR. A perspective continuum enables adapting and manipulating the sense of agency and involvement in the virtual world. This fexibility of perspectives broadens the design space of VR experiences through deliberately manipulating perception. In a study, we explore users' attitudes, experiences and perceptions while controlling a virtual character from the two known perspectives. Statistical analysis of the empirical results shows the existence of a perspective continuum in VR. Our findings can be used to design experiences based on shifts of perception.

Virtual Reality (VR) offers a valuable platform for real-life skills training. However, previous research has indicated that human's perception of depth in VR differs from that of the real world. Such perceptual conflicts can impact immersion and the learning of skills, thus attracting widespread attention. Various methods have been proposed to enhance users' depth perception, yet the underlying mechanisms of depth perception conflicts still require further research. In this paper, we used Error-Related Potentials (ErrPs) from electroencephalography (EEG) data to investigate the differences in participants' perceptions at varying depths within the near-field. We designed a within-subjects experiment to successfully introduce depth perception conflicts. From participants exposed to three distinct depths, we collected questionnaire results, performance data, and EEG data. Our findings showed that EEG can effectively detect depth perception conflicts and, following each conflict, participants' behavioral patterns showed significant changes. In situations with shallower depths, participants exhibited stronger responses to the designed conflicts. This increased sensitivity correlates with their accuracy in depth estimation. This study represents a novel approach to depth perception in VR using ErrPs, setting the stage for further use of physiological signals to measure the granularity of depth perception in VR/AR environments.

This article presents a user study into user perception of an object's size when presented in virtual reality. Critical for users understanding of virtual worlds is their perception of the size of virtual objects. This article is concerned with virtual objects that are within arm's reach of the user. Examples of such virtual objects could be virtual controls such as buttons, dials and levers that the users manipulate to control the virtual reality application. This article explores the issue of a user's ability to judge the size of an object relative to a second object of a different colour. The results determined that the points of subjective equality for height and width judgement tasks ranging from 10 to 90 mm were all within an acceptable value. That is to say, participants were able to perceive height and width judgements very close to the target values. The results for height judgement task for just-noticeable difference were all less than 1.5 mm and for the width judgement task less than 2.3 mm.

Our research focuses on how physical props in virtual reality (VR) can affect users' time perception. We designed an experiment with the goal of comparing users' perception of time when using physical props in VR as compared to standard controllers and only virtual elements. In order to quantify this effect, time estimates for both conditions are compared to time estimates for a matching real-world task. In this experiment, participants assume the role of a firefighter trainee, going through a HAZMAT scenario, where they touch and interact with different physical props that match the virtual elements of the scene.

One of the utilities of Virtual Reality is to provide its users with new perspectives, which is a promising application for architectural and interior design. In this paper, we investigate the effects of varying spatial scale perception (SSP), the perception of risks, and the ability to detect them in the virtual environment. We conducted a user study where participants experienced four unique perspectives, that of a two-year-old child, an eight-year-old child, an adult and a person in a wheelchair by manipulating their virtual inter-pupillary distance and eye height. We found that varying SSP had significant impacts on the perceived level of risk, heights of the identified risk, and the number of risks discovered. The results yielded empirical evidence to support that experiencing different SSP, can potentially help identify issues during an architectural design process for various groups of users.

We present a user study exploring spatial scale perception for design tasks by simulating different levels of eye heights (EHs) and inter-pupillary distances (IPDs) in a virtual environment. The study examined two levels of spatial scale perception of two-year-old children and adults for a chair scale estimation task. This was to provide appropriate perspectives to enable a suitable estimation of the virtual object scale for the target group during the design process. We found that the disparity between the perspective taken and the target user group had a significant impact on the resulting scale of the chairs. Our key contribution is in providing evidence to support that experiencing different spatial scale perception in VR has the potential to improve the designer's understanding of the end-user's perspective during the design process.

Spatial perception in virtual environments has been a topic of intense research. Arguably, the majority of this work has focused on distance perception. However, orientation perception is also an important factor. In this paper, we systematically investigate allocentric orientation judgments in both real and virtual contexts over the course of four experiments. A pattern of sinusoidal judgment errors known to exist in 2D perspective displays is found to persist in immersive virtual environments. This pattern also manifests itself in a real world setting using two differing judgment methods. The findings suggest the presence of a radial anisotropy that persists across viewing contexts. Additionally, there is some evidence to suggest that observers have multiple strategies for processing orientations but further investigation is needed to fully describe this phenomenon. We also offer design suggestions for 3D user interfaces where users may perform orientation judgments.

Virtual reality is a good tool to design and assess urban projects and to study perception in cities. Climate perception significantly influences the perception and use of urban spaces; however, virtual urban environments are scarcely represented with different climatic aspects. In this paper, we study the role that visual cues (sky aspect, shadows, sun location, and light effects) specifically play in climate perception (season, daytime and temperature) in virtual urban environments. We present and discuss the data we collected from a recent virtual reality experiment in which ten variations of the climatic context in the same urban space were assessed.

At present, virtual-reality fusion smart experiments mostly employ visual perception devices to collect user behavior data, but this method faces the obstacles of distance, angle, occlusion, light, and a variety of other factors of indoor interactive input devices. Moreover, the essence of the traditional multimodal fusion algorithm (TMFA) is to analyze the user's experimental intent serially using single-mode information, which cannot fully utilize the intent information of each mode. Therefore, this paper designs a multimodal fusion algorithm (hereinafter referred to as MFA, Algorithm 4) which focuses on the parallel fusion of user's experimental intent. The essence of the MFA is the fusion of multimodal intent probability. At the same time, this paper designs a smart glove based on the virtual-reality fusion experiments, which can integrate multichannel data such as voice, visual, and sensor. This smart glove can not only capture user's experimental intent but also navigate, guide, or warn user's operation behaviors, and it has stronger perception capabilities compared to any other data glove or smart experimental device. The experimental results demonstrate that the smart glove presented in this paper can be widely employed in the chemical experiment teaching based on virtual-reality fusion.

End-user participation during the design review plays an important role in improving the quality of building products. For a long while it has been constrained by the complexity of design information requiring architectural expertise to be clearly understood. Recent advances in virtual reality technology, such as the HMD-based immersive virtual environment (HIVE), help end-users to understand building designs intuitively and clearly and thus involve them in the design review. However, for HIVE to be employed in end-user participation investigators first need to determine how realistically this technology can represent the physical environment. Despite the importance of the spatial perception for end-users' feedback, there has been little evidence that HIVE allows spatial perceptions of building design comparable to those in the real world. The present study therefore aimed to investigate spatial perceptions in HIVE. We conducted surveys of affective responses, room appraisal, the sense of presence, together with reading comprehension tasks, in four different virtual environments by manipulating ceiling height and type. As a result, distinctive spatial perceptions were found in the virtual environment, reflecting variations in experimental conditions and resembling those in the real world. Thus the study contributes to our understanding of the immersive virtual environment and its potential for end-user participation during the design review.

With the increasing amount and extensive usage of 3D models in many areas, there is a demanding need for developing retrieval systems to help people find 3D models that satisfy their applications quickly and easily. As a result, designing a natural and interactive human-machine interface close to human's perception is necessary for this purpose. The paper presents a novel user interface design for 3D model retrieval systems. Firstly, the advantages for building a 3D user interface are analyzed. Then, a 3D user interface design adopting virtual reality techniques (e.g. VRML/X3D, Java3D) is proposed and described in detail. The paper finally concludes with some future directions in 3D user interfaces designing.

Designing colours for architecture with digital tools is still a challenging topic. Especially for customers and students the perception of a full-scale coloured interior room is hard to imagine. This paper presents a software prototype and a small user study, which addresses the colour design process with professional digital tools and a virtual reality head mounted device (Oculus Rift DK2). The user can navigate within an imported three-dimensional model freely and change colour, texture and light properties with a real-time updated radiosity visualization. The presented user study compares a screen based working method with the developed virtual reality based design support and interaction method.

IntroductionMass casualty incidents (MCI) are unforeseeable and complex events that occur worldwide, therefore enhancing the training that medical first responders (MFRs) receive is fundamental to strengthening disaster preparedness and response. In recent years, extended reality (XR) technology has been introduced as a new approach and promising teaching technique for disaster medicine education.ObjectiveTo assess the effectiveness of XR simulation as a tool to train MFRs in MCIs, and to explore the perception and experience of participants to these new forms of training.DesignSystematic review.MethodsThis systematic review was conducted in accordance with the "Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses" (PRISMA) statement. Four databases were searched (MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and LILACs) using a comprehensive search strategy to identify relevant articles, and MetaQAT was used as a study quality assessment tool. Data from included studies was not pooled for meta-analysis due to heterogeneity. Extracted data was synthesised in a narrative, semi-quantitative manner.ResultsA total of 18 studies were included from 8 different countries. Studies encompassed a variety of participants (e.g., nurses, paramedics, physicians), interventions (virtual, mixed and augmented reality), comparators (comparison between two groups and single groups with pre-post evaluation), and outcomes (effectiveness and MFR perception). The synthesis of data indicated that XR was an effective tool for prehospital MCI training by means of improved triage accuracy, triage time, treatment accuracy, performance correctness and/or knowledge acquired. These XR systems were well perceived by MFRs, who expressed their interest and satisfaction towards this learning experience and emphasized its usefulness and relevance.ConclusionThis research supports the usefulness and significance of XR technology that allows users to enhance their skills and confidence when facing forthcoming disasters. The findings summarize recommendations and suggestions for the implementation, upgrade and/or assessment of this novel and valuable teaching method.

Virtual Reality based driving simulators are increasingly used to train and assess users' abilities to operate vehicles in a controlled and safe way. For the development of those simulators it is important to identify and evaluate design factors affecting perception, behaviour, and driving performance. In an exemplary power wheelchair simulator setting we identified the three immersion factors display type (head-mounted display v monitor), ability to freely change the field of view (FOV), and the visualisation of the user's avatar as potentially affecting perception and behaviour. In a study with 72 participants we found all three factors affected the participants' sense of presence in the virtual environment. In particular the display type significantly affected both perceptual and behavioural measures whereas FOV only affected behavioural measures. Our findings could guide future Virtual Reality simulator designers to evoke targeted user behaviours and perceptions. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

We evaluated the perception of affordances in virtual environments (VE). In our work, we considered the affordances for standing on a virtual slanted surface. Participants were asked to judge whether a virtual slanted surface supported upright stance. The objective was to evaluate whether this perception was possible in virtual reality (VR) and comparable to previous works conducted in real environments. We found that the perception of affordances for standing on a slanted surface in virtual reality is possible and comparable (with an underestimation) to previous studies conducted in real environments. We also found that participants were able to extract and to use virtual information about friction in order to judge whether a slanted surface supported an upright stance. Finally, results revealed that the person's position on the slanted surface is involved in the perception of affordances for standing on virtual grounds. Taken together, our results show quantitatively that the perception of affordances can be effective in virtual environments and influenced by both environmental and person properties. Such a perceptual evaluation of affordances in VR could guide VE designers to improve their designs and to better understand the effect of these designs on VE users.

3D virtual environments (VE) require an advanced user interface to fully express their information contents. New I/O devices enable the use of multiple sensorial channels (vision, hearing, touch, etc.) to increase the naturalness and the efficiency of complex interactions. Haptic and acoustic interfaces extend the effective experience of virtual reality to visually impaired users. For these users, a multimodal rendering that matches the subjective characteristics and the personal abilities of individuals is mandatory to provide a complete and correct perception of the virtual scene. User feedbacks are critical since the design phase. This paper proposes an approach for the design of haptic/acoustic user interface to makes up the lack of visual feedback in blind users interaction. It increases the flexibility of the interface development by decoupling the multimodal rendering design from the VE geometric structure. An authoring tool allows experts of the knowledge domain (even without specific skills about the VE) to design the haptic/acoustic rendering of virtual objects.

In this study, we propose and evaluate a desktop 3D multi-user virtual learning system for the study of butterflies. Multiple users can use avatars to learn and communicate through voice. Results indicate that the system received positive ratings in terms of perception, system effectiveness, learning experience, enjoyment, and attractiveness. However, areas for improvement were identified. The findings have practical implications for the design of educational multi-user virtual reality.

The increasing adoption of three-dimensional (3D) virtual reality technologies in business practices requires an interdisciplinary research approach to study their effect. In this paper we investigate the effects of different 3D online store layouts on user perceptions in the e-retailing context. We build on recent research on store atmosphere that classifies store layouts in 3D environments as "avant-garde", "warehouse", "pragmatic", "boutique" and "department". Reflecting the dual identity of individuals as both consumers visiting virtual stores and users interacting with graphical user interfaces, we employ key constructs from both the marketing and the information systems literature to build our research model. The study measures how Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, Merchandise Quality Perception and Store Perception vary across the distinct store layouts. We employ a laboratory experiment in the apparel industry to test our model. Our results show that the layouts lead to different perceptions, although the consumers' Shopping Motivation does not moderate this effect. Building on the differences found on store layout effects on user/consumer behavior in the 3D online context, the paper discusses relevant research and practical implications.

The Novel Perception system enhances users' awareness of the world by providing them naturalistic access to sources of information beyond what is perceivable by the basic human senses. The system, conceived of and designed by a team at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL), collects signals from a variety of sensors, synchronizes them in real time, registers them in real space, and then overlays them onto the real world as imagery and holograms seen through a mixed reality (MR) headset. The concept includes "virtual lenses" of hyperspectrot radio frequency, social, physiological, thermal, and radiological/nuclear overlays, so that a user can select multiple virtual lenses to create on-the-fly custom compound lenses across these modalities. Because the volume and velocity of the data streaming from these sensor modalities may be overwhelming, the system is envisioned to leverage artificial intelligence and brain-computer interfaces to sculpt the deluge per the operational tasks at hand. This article describes the approach to developing the system as well as possible applications.

The current experimental study examined whether different degrees of immersive and interactive experience made a difference in users' perceptions and intention to adopt a novel VR-based MR training system. In this paper, virtual reality was used as an educational technology that allowed users to virtually rotate 3-D objects and helped to enhance their spatial ability, which would be particularly useful in future careers in STEM. A 2 (display) x 2 (controller) x 2 (gender) experimental design was conducted. Researchers used a 2-D monoscopic display and a stereoscopic display to manipulate two different conditions of immersion, while a computer mouse and a hand-held controller were applied to measure the effects from two different levels of interactivity. Gender was examined due to prior research suggesting that males were better at MR tasks than females. The dependent variables were various perceptions and behavioral intentions developed from relevant theories in technology acceptance. The results showed that users' positive perceptions and intention to use the novel MR system were amplified whenever better immersive and interactive experiences were provided simultaneously, or when the inferior immersive and interactive experiences were offered at the same time. Females under a better immersive environment perceived better feelings of enjoyment, confirmation, satisfaction, and behavioral intention, compared with their male counterparts. Theoretical contributions in perceptions and use intention of educational technology, with a specific focus on VR, were discussed. Practical implications for developers of educational technology and K-12/college educators were provided.

While virtual objects are likely to be a part of future interfaces, we lack knowledge of how the dynamic position of virtual objects influences users' posture. In this study, we investigated users' posture change following the unobtrusive and swift motions of a content window in virtual reality (VR). In two perception studies, we estimated the perception threshold on undetectable slow motions and displacement during an eye blink. In a formative study, we compared users' performance, posture change as well as subjective responses on unobtrusive, swift, and no motions. Based on the result, we designed concept applications and explored potential design space of moving virtual content for unobtrusive posture change. With our study, we discuss the interfaces that control users and the initial design guidelines of unobtrusive posture manipulation.

Virtual reality (VR) helps to visualize the spatial relationships between the different elements of the landscape in landscape architecture, allowing the user to feel the designed environment and navigate through it interactively. VR can be used to navigate spaces designed both indoors (inside a building) and outdoors (landscape). In the present research, the perception of the 3D environment during navigation was compared between indoor and outdoor virtual reality environments. The value of the user experience was measured with the Questionnaire on User eXperience in Immersive Virtual Environments, analyzing the presence, engagement, immersion, flow, skill, emotion, usability, technology adoption, judgment and experience consequence subscales. In overall self-reported user experience, results showed that the perception of the environment during navigation was higher in open VR environments than in closed ones. Regarding subscales, the existence of obstacles limits the freedom of movement, which causes a lesser sense of presence. A more fluid VR navigation also generates positive effects on the flow subscale. In outdoor environments, lighting generates shadows, which help in spatial perception and orientation tasks during navigation, which facilitates and increases the perception of immersion. In closed environments, light plays a less important role during navigation.

An increasing number of innovative technologies are fostering augmented collaborative systems, thus setting the milestones of future collaboration paradigms. By merging real and virtual elements, mixed reality technologies lead to an augmented perception of the working environment and, consequently, an enriched experience of collaborative task execution. However, at the same time, such technologies can also impede proper communication and understanding among the entities working in concert to reach a common goal. Wearing head-mounted displays and simultaneously managing two different interactions - human-human and human-machine can lead to misunderstandings with co-workers. This also can hinder awareness, a fundamental requirement for the effective execution of collaborative tasks. As a consequence, cognitive load can increase with a negative impact on task performance. This paper analyses the main elements of a collaborative practice. Specifically, our aim is to identify crucial factors that must be considered for designing an effective interface for a collaborative mixed reality system. Then, we discuss some solutions to ensure that technology can act as an aid, rather than an impediment, to the accomplishment of collaborative tasks.

Spatial perception in virtual reality systems relies on a number of variables, including how users explore, observe and perceive the spatial factors of a virtual environment. In virtual reality systems, users can assume different types of views for spatial decision-making about the sizes and scales of and relationships among virtual spaces. This research explored the role of view usage patterns in spatial cognition and decision-making in a fully immersive virtual reality system and monitor-based virtual reality system. The focus of study was the impact of using the eye-level view as the only view type in a fully immersive virtual reality system on actual and perceived view usage patterns in a monitor-based virtual reality system. In addition, users' spatial decision-making results were compared with regards to system usage sequence and view type. Quantitative and qualitative data, descriptive and inferential statistical comparisons, and testing of both systems were used to determine the participants' performances concerning view usage patterns and the design outcomes. The results showed a moderate association between the view type utilized for spatial perception in a monitor-based virtual reality system and variations in system usage sequence. In addition, for both systems, variations in system usage sequence, space type, and other characteristics all affected the strength of the linear regressions of the sizes and scales of the design outcomes.

We are exploring how virtual reality theories can be applied toward palmtop computers. In our prototype, called the Chameleon, a small 4-inch hand-held monitor acts as a palmtop computer with the capabilities of a Silicon graphics workstation. A 6D input device and a response button are attached to the small monitor to detect user gestures and input selections for issuing commands. An experiment was conducted to evaluate our design and to see how well depth could be perceived in the small screen compared to a large 21-inch screen, and the extent to which movement of the small display (in a palmtop virtual reality condition) could improve depth perception. Results show that with very little training, perception of depth in the palmtop virtual reality condition is about as good as corresponding depth perception in a large (but static) display. Variations to the initial design are also discussed, along with issues to be explored in future research. Our research suggests that palmtop virtual reality may support effective navigation and search and retrieval, in rich and portable information spaces. Z8 2

We introduce the concept of asymmetric normalization, which refers to decoupling sensory self-perception from the perception of others in a shared virtual environment to present each user with a normalized version of the other users. This concept can be applied to various avatar-related elements such as appearance, location, or non-verbal communication. For example, each participant in a polyadic virtual reality study can see other participants at an average height of the respective test population, while individual participants continue to see themselves embodied according to their actual height. We demonstrate in a pilot experiment how asymmetric normalization enables the acquisition of new information about social interactions and promises to reduce bias to promote replicability and external validity.

Design understanding and needed level of the accompanying spatial skills that enable it depend on information input provided by a visual representation of a design solution. During product development, designers use models to visually represent a design solution. These visual representations can be mediated by various technologies (for example, an immersive virtual reality (IVR) technology or 2D user interfaces such as a monitor display), providing designers with different types of information. Capabilities of an IVR technology such as stereopsis, eye-height reference, spatial updating, and multimodal interaction, have shown a potential to mitigate the cognitive load and the need for highly developed spatial skills enabling design understanding. Nevertheless, specific design understanding aspects for which IVR technology may be beneficial over conventional 2D user interfaces are yet to be clarified. The conducted experiment aimed to explore differences in designers' spatial perception of spatial properties and relations (affordances) of a design solution in virtual environments (VEs). The design solution was presented by a 3D CAD model in immersive virtual environment (IVE) and non-immersive virtual environment (nIVE). IVE was mediated using the IVR technology (head-mounted display; HMD), while nIVE using the conventional 2D user interface (a monitor display, a mouse, and a keyboard). Results indicate that engineering students more accurately perceive spatial properties in the IVE than nIVE. Besides, it is suggested that the likelihood of making the correct judgment of the affordance is similar in both VEs.

Virtual commerce applies immersive technology such as augmented reality and virtual reality into e-commerce to shift consumer perception from 2D product catalogs to 3D immersive virtual spaces. In virtual commerce, the alignment of application design paradigms and the factors influencing consumer behavior is paramount to promote purchase of products and services. The question of their relation needs to be answered, together with the possible improvement of application design. This paper used a systematic literature review approach to synthesize research on virtual commerce from both application design and consumer behavior research, considering the promotion of purchase in virtual commerce settings. Throughout the review, influential factors to purchase and preeminent design artifacts were identified. Then, the research gaps were discovered by mapping the design artifacts to the influential factors, which can inspire future research opportunities on the synergy of these two research directions. Moreover, the evolution of virtual commerce research along with multiple directions were discussed, including the suggestion of meta-commerce as a future trend.

Users embrace the rapid development of virtual reality (VR) technology for everyday settings. These settings include payment, which makes user authentication necessary. Despite this need, there is a limited understanding of how users' unique experiences in VR contribute to their security perception. To understand this question, we designed probes of payment authentication, which are embedded in the routine payment of a VR game, to provoke participants' reactions from multiple angles.

Design of haptic interfaces for precise bimanual manipulation should take into account how weight simulation is implemented when manipulation switches between one and two hands. The importance of this is apparent in tasks where the user requires to apply vertical forces to penetrate a surface with a tool or splice a fragile object using one and/or two hands. Accurate perception of simulated weight should allow the user to execute the task with high precision. Here, we evaluated unimanual and bimanual weight perception when lifting virtual boxes of different weights with precision grip in a coupled Master Finger 2 setup. Initial results with virtual weights are similar to results from studies which used real weights [1] even though the users appear to be less sensitive to virtual weights. Implications for haptic interface design are discussed.

The goal of this study is to develop a smart device that can be used to enhance virtual space perception to improve the haptic perception experience of the user's space in virtual training, entertainment, and other scenarios. Haptic feedback is one of the key elements to enhance the experience of virtual space perception. At present, virtual reality technology has been able to accomplish a considerable degree of ultra visual virtual field experience, such as simulating terrain, constructing haptic proxies with airbags to refine the virtual scene, but lack of research on longitudinal spatial haptics, passive opening of fixed haptic devices cannot meet the sensory needs of switching between different virtual spaces. In this study, the introduction of props of haptic proxies in the virtual space helps to enhance the virtual sensory experience of users. Through experiments and preliminary validation of user perception indicators, four design strategies for haptic proxies props in purely visual virtual contexts are proposed. Based on the design strategies, this paper designs an intelligent device for constructing an immersive virtual reality system, which assists users to interactively surrogate vision through haptic perception in virtual reality, and to more realistically feel the obstruction experience and spatial sense in virtual space. The device is installed on both sides of the experience space by two groups of forty 50 cm x 40 cm rectangular panels in total to meet the need for different sizes of obstructions in different scenarios, where each rectangular block can be actuated up to five depth levels (one depth actuation level for every 10 cm). Each panel is driven by a motorized actuator and moves the panel to the target displacement. The motors are powered by a power supply, driven by a motor driver, and controlled by an Arduino Uno that receives commands via serial communication from a host PC running a custom Unity application written in c#. The facilities and methods of this research have a wide range of application scenarios, which can provide a more realistic sense of experience for the design and development of virtual systems for spatial training classeswith strict requirements for spatial perception; optimize the display effect and evaluation of virtual display of indoor decoration and home furnishing options; Enhance the spatial experience of virtual gaming categories, providing multi-dimensional haptic stimulation for immersive games such as virtual escape rooms. Provide multidimensional haptic and sensory stimulation. Future research can use the developed smart devices to further optimize the sensory feedback of visual-haptic synchronization in virtual space.

This article studies fine motor strategies for precise spatial manipulation in close-to-body interactions. Our innate ability for precise work is the result of the confluence of visuo-tactile perception, proprioception, and bi-manual motor control. Contrary to this, most mixed-reality (MR) systems are designed for interactions at arms length. To develop guidelines for precise manipulations in MR systems, there is a need for a systematic study of motor strategies including physical indexing, bi-manual coordination, and the relationship between visual and tactile feedback. To address this need, we present a series of experiments using three variations of a tablet-based MR interface using a close-range motion capture system and motion-tracked shape proxies. We investigate an elaborate version of the classic peg-and-hole task that our results strongly suggests the critical need for high precision tracking to enable precise manipulation.

Mixed reality environments are the next step in remote collaboration, yet there has been little attention towards avatar design for the enjoyability and efficiency of diverse users, particularly for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ+) community. We believe that it is important to adapt the design of virtual avatars users collaborate with depending on not only the users gender but also their sexuality. In this study, we focus on examining the relationship between the sexual orientation of male users with the gender expression of virtual avatars, while they perform a collaborative task in mixed reality. We analyzed the perception of straight cisgender men and gay cisgender men in relation to the gender expression of the above mentioned agents and find differences that might affect design decisions for creating user-base specific avatars. We found that Female avatars tend to have a more positive perception when it comes to gay men. And for mixed reality, gay men also tend to have both negative and positive experiences more intensely than straight men.

Virtual Reality (VR) affords the opportunity to experience things that could be cost-prohibitive, dangerous, or even impossible in real life. One of these impossibilities is virtual time traveling, a way to he fully immersed in a simulation of the past or future. Our team used user-centered design methodologies and expert guidance to creak a VR scenario exploring what the future of urban transportation could look like. Focusing on a sharing economy (e.g. mobility as a service), the experience uses existing technologies as well as science-based theoretical concepts to create an immersive, interactive simulation of how daily transit habits could evolve. A subsequent user study explored how VR can influence someone's attitudes and perceptions towards these sorts of mobility concepts and technologies. Our results show that VR is an effective way to quickly and intuitively explain complex concepts and may also play a role in broadening user perspectives.

Mixed Reality (MR) is promising to fuse the visualization potentialities of Virtual Reality (VR) with the physical properties of the real world, thus allowing a more natural interaction in virtual environments and preserving visuo-motor coordination and tactile perception. In this work, we perform an interaction task, taking a cup of coffee, which involves hand movements and grasping. We consider three scenarios: an MR environment implementing an ecological object substitution technique, in which the user touches real objects tracked in real-time and sees a virtual counterpart; a classical VR environment, in which virtual objects do not have any real counterpart; the corresponding real scenario. In MR, the tracked real object can be either with a shape like the virtual one or a simpler real object. We compute the Minimum Jerk Cost function as a metric to compare movements in the different modalities, assuming that a major goal of motor coordination is producing the smoothest possible movement of the hand. From a pilot study, movements cost in VR is 5.1 times higher than the cost of the movements in the real world. This could be due to the lack of physicality when grabbing virtual objects without a real counterpart. Furthermore, the cost of movements obtained in MR is only 2.8 times higher than the one obtained in the real scenario, indicating that such a system could lead to more realistic and efficient human movements with respect to a VR system.

Haptic sensation plays an important role in providing physical information to users in both real environments and virtual environments. To produce high-fidelity haptic feedback, various haptic devices and tactile rendering methods have been explored in myriad scenarios, and perception deviation between a virtual environment and a real environment has been investigated. However, the tactile sensitivity for touch perception in a virtual environment has not been fully studied; thus, the necessary guidance to design haptic feedback quantitatively for virtual reality systems is lacking. This paper aims to investigate users' tactile sensitivity and explore the perceptual thresholds when users are immersed in a virtual environment by utilizing electrovibration tactile feedback and by generating tactile stimuli with different waveform, frequency and amplitude characteristics. Hence, two psychophysical experiments were designed, and the experimental results were analyzed. We believe that the significance and potential of our study on tactile perceptual thresholds can promote future research that focuses on creating a favorable haptic experience for VR applications.

Animation art design is widely used in all levels of social life and has become an important part of modern social visual culture. Driven by new technologies, it is integrated with relevant application fields, resulting in new media forms and art categories. The development course of animation art design is sorted out, focusing on the analysis of the technical basis of animation art design and art form, social function and cultural form, creative practice, and theoretical research. This paper puts forward the concept of dimension composition of animation art design and analyzes and studies the dimensions of technology and art, cognition and experience, economy, and culture in animation art design and artistic creation based on this concept. The modeling of edge devices and services is proposed to abstract resources and provide a unified formal description of user virtual perception for animation art design of various sensing types. All related attributes are described uniformly, and the device model and task model are given. Users can customize services based on predefined attributes. According to the development demand of multiuser shared virtual environments, the characteristics and limitations of the previous perception management scheme are analyzed and a two-layer perception management scheme is designed to adapt to the development of new multiuser shared virtual environment of animation art design.

The value and significance of intelligent experiments have gained widespread consensus and formed an industry chain in the education field. However, the interaction issues in such systems have severely constrained their extensive application. These issues manifest in weak operational feedback, problems with traditional interactive devices such as obstructed views and inability to observe subtle experimental phenomena at close range. The most prominent challenge is the inability of existing virtual experiments to accurately perceive user intentions. Therefore, in response to the aforementioned challenging problems in intelligent experiment interaction tools, this paper proposes an overall approach to design a multimodal fusion perception-based Smart gloves system for middle school experiments. It adopts a combination of virtual and real experiments, utilizing the Smart gloves to facilitate the experiment process. The paper designs the hardware structure of the Smart gloves and proposes the YSA algorithm and ICAM algorithm to capture user multimodal intentions, constructing the MAG algorithm to achieve multimodal fusion comprehension of user intentions at the decision-making level. This enhances the system's ability to accurately comprehend and analyze user intentions, thereby strengthening the Smart gloves's intent understanding capability. Experimental results demonstrate that the designed Smart gloves can promptly infer users' experimental intentions and provide corresponding feedback. The experiments further indicate that the developed Smart gloves interaction tool exhibits unique advantages in addressing challenging technical issues faced by existing intelligent experiment tools and traditional data gloves, offering encouraging potential application prospects.

Virtual Reality (VR) produces a highly realistic simulation environment to engage users with Immersive Virtual Environments (IVEs). To interact effectively with users, VR builds intensive media through the multi-modal sense functions in the lower level, such as visual, auditory, tactile, and olfactory senses. However, the higher-level perceptions, e.g., the temporal duration, the sense of presence, and the cognitive load are less explored. These higher-level perceptions are part of the critical evaluation criteria for VR design. In this paper, we divide the external zeitgebers into visual and auditory zeitgebers. We then combine these zeitgebers with the attention-oriented cognitive load to investigate their effects on temporal estimation and presence, particularly in IVEs. We propose a data-driven method to build a multi-modal predictive equation for time estimation and presence, in an effort to figure out the essential elements of users' spatial and temporal perception in VR. We also design a complicated application and validate the predictive equation. Our feature-based model is able to guide the VR application design in terms of the subjective time length judgment and presence of users as well as achieve a better VR user experience.

We explored the impact of depth of knowledge on conversational agents and human perceptions in a virtual reality (VR) environment. We designed experimental conditions with low, medium, and high depths of knowledge in the domain of game development and tested them among 27 game development students. We aimed to understand how the agent's predefined knowledge levels affected the participants' perceptions of the agent and its knowledge. Our findings showed that participants could distinguish between different knowledge levels of the virtual agent. Moreover, the agent's depth of knowledge significantly impacted participants' perceptions of intelligence, rapport, factuality, the uncanny valley effect, anthropomorphism, and willingness for future interaction. We also found strong correlations between perceived knowledge, perceived intelligence, factuality, and willingness for future interactions. We developed design guidelines for creating conversational agents from our data and observations. This study contributes to the human-agent interaction field in VR settings by providing empirical evidence on the importance of tailoring virtual agents' depth of knowledge to improve user experience, offering insights into designing more engaging and effective conversational agents. Z8 0

Shared-gaze visualizations (SGV) allow collocated collaborators to understand each other's attention and intentions while working jointly in an augmented reality setting. However, prior work has overlooked user control and privacy over how gaze information can be shared between collaborators. In this work, we examine two methods for visualizing shared-gaze between collaborators: gazehover and gaze-trigger. We compare the methods with existing solutions through a paired-user evaluation study in which participants participate in a virtual assembly task. Finally, we contribute an understanding of user perceptions, preferences, and design implications of shared-gaze visualizations in augmented reality.

Mixed Reality (MR), or more specifically Augmented Reality (AR) technology, is frequently mentioned as a solution to human performance problems of degraded perception and cognition. There have been few attempts to develop lab-based MR prototypes for architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) operations and thus no commercial MR applications can be found in the industry today. It is envisioned that useful MR systems will support the execution of information-intensive tasks, and identification of opportunities for MR requires analysis of AEC tasks at the appropriate level of detail. This paper develops an AEC task taxonomy and task analysis method for understanding the nature of a given task from a user-centered perspective. The composite and primitive levels are deemed appropriate levels for MR mapping to technology. The paper also identifies a set of influencing factors that should be analyzed and considered while selecting from among the MR technological component alternatives. Until construction product and process design become more highly integrated, MR technology applications can only occur at the lower level task, constrained to very limited application areas.

In Case You Don't Know What To Play is a framework for designing a Virtual Reality application that uses spatial distortion to influence the user's visual perception and ultimately shall manipulate their sense of time. Spatial orientation allows us to judge distances regarding their temporal component. In particular, in self-motion we can estimate the duration it takes to cover a given distance, since time and spatial perception are connected. This connection can be broken with the help of Virtual Reality technology and a perceptual conflict can be created.

This paper presents a novel approach for the augmentation of social behaviors in virtual reality (VR). We designed three visual transformations for behavioral phenomena crucial to everyday social interactions: eye contact, joint attention, and grouping. To evaluate the approach, we let users interact socially in a virtual museum using a large-scale multi-user tracking environment. Using a between-subject design (N = 125) we formed groups of five participants. Participants were represented as simplified avatars and experienced the virtual museum simultaneously, either with or without the augmentations. Our results indicate that our approach can significantly increase social presence in multi-user environments and that the augmented experience appears more thought-provoking. Furthermore, the augmentations seem also to affect the actual behavior of participants with regard to more eye contact and more focus on avatars/objects in the scene. We interpret these findings as first indicators for the potential of social augmentations to impact social perception and behavior in VR.

Current techniques for haptics in immersive virtual environments (IVEs) allow users to perceive materials while exploring virtual surfaces. However, these experiences are usually restricted to the properties defined during the design phase of the IVE. Analogous to drawing in virtual reality (VR), we propose the concept of haptic design by granting users the ability to (re-)configure haptic feedback in their IVEs through changes of virtual objects' material properties. To study this concept, we considered how fabric sample books provide insights of material configurations by allowing us to explore different visual-haptic combinations. As an initial approach, we created the Haptic Palette, a dynamic passive haptic feedback controller where visual augmentations on top of physical textures allow users to experience mixed material perceptions. In this work, we posit the notion of haptic design for VR and present the results of an initial study using our Haptic Palette controller.

There is an increasingly urgent need for humans to interactively control robotic systems to perform increasingly precise remote operations, concomitant with the rapid development of space exploration, deep-sea discovery, nuclear rehabilitation and management, and robotic-assisted medical devices. The potential high value of medical telerobotic applications was also evident during the recent coronavirus pandemic and will grow in future. Robotic teleoperation satisfies the demands of the scenarios in which human access carries measurable risk, but human intelligence is required. An effective teleoperation system not only enables intuitive human-robot interaction (HRI) but ensures the robot can also be operated in a way that allows the operator to experience the "feel" of the robot working on the remote side, gaining a "sense of presence". Extended reality (XR) technology integrates real-world information with computer-generated graphics and has the potential to enhance the effectiveness and performance of HRI by providing depth perception and enabling judgment and decision making while operating the robot in a dynamic environment. This review examines novel approaches to the development and evaluation of an XR-enhanced telerobotic platform for intuitive remote teleoperation applications in dangerous and difficult working conditions. It presents a strong review of XR-enhanced telerobotics for remote robotic applications; a particular focus of the review includes the use of integrated 2D/3D mixed reality with haptic interfaces to perform intuitive remote operations to remove humans from dangerous conditions. This review also covers primary studies proposing Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), and Mixed Reality (MR) solutions where humans can better control or interact with real robotic platforms using these devices and systems to extend the user's reality and provide a more intuitive interface. The objective of this article is to present recent, relevant, common, and accessible frameworks implemented in research articles published on XR-enhanced telerobotics for industrial applications. Finally, we present and classify the application context of the reviewed articles in two groups: mixed reality-enhanced robotic telemanipulation and mixed reality-enhanced robotic tele-welding. The review thus addresses all elements in the state of the art for these systems and ends with recommended research areas and targets. The application range of these systems and the resulting recommendations is readily extensible to other application areas, such as remote robotic surgery in telemedicine, where surgeons are scarce and need is high, and other potentially high-risk/high-need scenarios.

In this work, we explore the creation of self-avatars through video pass-through in mixed reality (MR) applications. We present our end-to-end system, including custom MR video pass-through implementation on a commercial head-mounted display (HMD), our deep learning-based real-time egocentric body segmentation algorithm, and our optimized offloading architecture, to communicate the segmentation server with the HMD. To validate this technology, we designed an immersive VR experience where the user has to walk through a narrow tile path over an active volcano crater. The study was performed under three-body representation conditions: virtual hands, video pass-through with color-based full-body segmentation, and video pass-through with deep learning full-body segmentation. This immersive experience was carried out by 30 women and 28 men. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first user study focused on evaluating video-based self-avatars to represent the user in a MR scene. Results showed no significant differences between the different body representations in terms of presence, with moderate improvements in some Embodiment components between the virtual hands and full-body representations. Visual Quality results showed better results from the deep-learning algorithms in terms of the whole body perception and overall segmentation quality. In this study, we provide some discussion regarding the use of video-based self-avatars and some reflections on the evaluation methodology. The proposed E2E solution is in the boundary of the state-of-the-art, so there is still room for improvement before it reaches maturity. However, this solution serves as a crucial starting point for MR applications where users can feel immersed and interact with their own bodies. Z8 0

In this paper, we present a method and a device designed to enhance the spatial efficiency of redirected walking (RDW) within virtual reality (VR). RDW is a VR technique that allows users to navigate larger virtual environments than the physical space permits by subtly altering their visual perception. The central challenge addressed is the alignment of haptic and visual perceptions of virtual objects, ensuring that both provide a unified experience, even if they deviate from the actual environment. By employing active kinesthetic feedback, our device seeks to bring the haptic perception of a virtual wall in harmony with its altered visual representation. We also introduce a novel algorithm that precisely gauges the position between a user's hand and the virtual wall, providing consistent kinesthetic feedback. This research underscores the potential advantages and challenges of synchronizing manipulated visual and kinesthetic perceptions in VR contexts.

Mixed Reality allows us to integrate virtual and physical content into users' environments seamlessly. Yet, how this fusion affects perceptual and cognitive resources and our ability to find virtual or physical objects remains uncertain. Displaying virtual and physical information simultaneously might lead to divided attention and increased visual complexity, impacting users' visual processing, performance, and workload. In a visual search task, we asked participants to locate virtual and physical objects in Augmented Reality and Augmented Virtuality to understand the effects on performance. We evaluated search efficiency and attention allocation for virtual and physical objects using event-related potentials, fixation and saccade metrics, and behavioral measures. We found that users were more efficient in identifying objects in Augmented Virtuality, while virtual objects gained saliency in Augmented Virtuality. This suggests that visual fidelity might increase the perceptual load of the scene. Reduced amplitude in distractor positivity ERP, and fixation patterns supported improved distractor suppression and search efficiency in Augmented Virtuality. We discuss design implications for mixed reality adaptive systems based on physiological inputs for interaction. Z8 0

The aim of the paper was to explore a new approach for flight simulation in virtual reality and to study user's perception of virtual avatar embodiment. The exploratory research started with (i) the perception of wings on the body, and the natural movement that people do when flying. The results were used to (ii) create a model and a virtual environment in order to explore the extent of the virtual presence and virtual body ownership of the users. To get appropriate user feedback a questionnaire with 76 international participants was used. The results indicated that 78.6% imagine having wings on their shoulders and on their back. In addition to that, 57.3% move their arms as intuitive action to fly. Based on these results the model has to follow the flapping flight simulation in a way that wings would be attached to the shoulder. An angelic avatar was designed and a game-based story was used to justify the connection of moving hands and having wings on the shoulder. This provides an insight into the perception of wings and action of flying as felt by the user. The last experiment used questionnaires to assess the extent of immersion and presence of the users in the virtual environment. The results indicate that such a setting provides an immersive effect for flying in virtual reality.

We introduce WeARHand, which allows a user to manipulate virtual 3D objects with a bare hand in a wearable augmented reality (AR) environment. Our method uses no environmentally tethered tracking devices and localizes a pair of near-range and far-range RGB-D cameras mounted on a head-worn display and a moving bare hand in 3D space by exploiting depth input data. Depth perception is enhanced through egocentric visual feedback, including a semi-transparent proxy hand. We implement a virtual hand interaction technique and feedback approaches, and evaluate their performance and usability. The proposed method can apply to many 3D interaction scenarios using hands in a wearable AR environment, such as AR information browsing, maintenance, design, and games.

The combination of sensors, perception algorithms, and mobile computing enables situationally aware systems that provide proactive assistance. This paper outlines the basic components of a virtual coach with illustrations in five applications ranging from reminders to advice to opportunities for personal reflection.

In our research agenda to study the effects of immersion (level of fidelity) on various tasks in virtual reality (VR) systems, we have found that the most generalizable findings come not from direct comparisons of different technologies, but from controlled simulations of those technologies. We call this the mixed reality (MR) simulation approach. However, the validity of MR simulation, especially when different simulator platforms are used, can be questioned. In this paper, we report the results of an experiment examining the effects of field of regard (FOR) and head tracking on the analysis of volume visualized micro-CT datasets, and compare them with those from a previous study. The original study used a CAVE-like display as the MR simulator platform, while the present study used a high-end head-mounted display (HMD). Out of the 24 combinations of system characteristics and tasks tested on the two platforms, we found that the results produced by the two different MR simulators were similar in 20 cases. However, only one of the significant effects found in the original experiment for quantitative tasks was reproduced in the present study. Our observations provide evidence both for and against the validity of MR simulation, and give insight into the differences caused by different MR simulator platforms. The present experiment also examined new conditions not present in the original study, and produced new significant results, which confirm and extend previous existing knowledge on the effects of FOR and head tracking. We provide design guidelines for choosing display systems that can improve the effectiveness of volume visualization applications.

The use of Virtual Reality (VR) technology, especially in medical rehabilitation, has expanded to include tactile cues along with visual stimuli. For patients with upper limb hemiplegia, tangible handles with haptic stimuli could improve their ability to perform daily activities. Traditional VR controllers are unsuitable for patient rehabilitation in VR, necessitating the design of specialized tangible handles with integrated tracking devices. Besides, matching tactile stimulation with corresponding virtual visuals could strengthen users' embodiment (i.e., owning and controlling virtual bodies) in VR, which is crucial for patients' training with virtual hands. Haptic stimuli have been shown to amplify the embodiment in VR, whereas the effect of partial tactile stimulation from tangible handles on embodiment remains to be clarified. This research, including three experiments, aims to investigate how partial tactile feedback of tangible handles impacts users' embodiment, and we proposed a design concept called TouchMark for partial tactile stimuli that could help users quickly connect the physical and virtual worlds. To evaluate users' tactile and comfort perceptions when grasping tangible handles in a non-VR setting, various handles with three partial tactile factors were manipulated in Study 1. In Study 2, we explored the effects of partial feedback using three forms of TouchMark on the embodiment of healthy users in VR, with various tangible handles, while Study 3 focused on similar investigations with patients. These handles were utilized to complete virtual food preparation tasks. The tactile and comfort perceptions of tangible handles and users' embodiment were evaluated in this research using questionnaires and interviews. The results indicate that TouchMark with haptic line and ring forms over no stimulation would significantly enhance users' embodiment, especially for patients. The low-cost and innovative TouchMark approach may assist users, particularly those with limited VR experience, in achieving the embodiment and enhancing their virtual interactive experience.

Visual effects and elements to visualize the perceptions of one's own virtual character (also referred to as Visual Delegates) are often used in video games, e.g., status bars visualize the character's sense of health, filters on the interface layer visualize the character's state of mind. It is still largely unexplored whether Visual Delegates can also be used to transfer the perception of non-player characters comprehensibly. Therefore, we developed a medical virtual reality scenario using five different types of Visual Delegates to visualize three different perceptions of a virtual non-player patient. We tested for character assignment in a qualitative user study (N = 20). Our results can be used to decide more effectively what types of Visual Delegates can be used to convey perceptions of non-player characters.

Designing new products according to user needs and requirements is a key success factor for companies. However, the characterization of user requirements in the early design stages is not an easy task due to the subjective nature of these requirements and because of the communication gap between users and designers. Digital design tools have the potential to enable users to actively participate in the design process and to directly interact with representations of the future product. Yet, they suffer a trade-off between their ability to accurately represent the user experience with the future product and their capacity to offer simple interfaces for the end user to manipulate. To overcome this issue, we introduce a new modular digital tool that allows users to become active participants of the design process through a high level of both immersion and control. The tool consists in a combination of a virtual reality environment for immersion and intuitive physical interfaces for direct control, resulting in a mixed reality hardware/software system. The hardware is made of modular tangible user interfaces (TUIs), custom-made by 3D printing and powered by a 3D game engine while the interactive content is displayed in virtual reality. The modularity of the system allows several TUIs and 3D content behaviours configurations to bring user friendliness and intuitively for each specific design project.

Most commercially available optical see-through head-mounted displays (OST-HMDs) utilize optical combiners to simultaneously visualize the physical background and virtual objects. The displayed images perceived by users are a blend of rendered pixels and background colors. Enabling high fidelity color perception in mixed reality (MR) scenarios using OST-HMDs is an important but challenging task. We propose a real-time rendering scheme to enhance the color contrast between virtual objects and the surrounding background for OST-HMDs. Inspired by the discovery of color perception in psychophysics, we first formulate the color contrast enhancement as a constrained optimization problem. We then design an end-to-end algorithm to search the optimal complementary shift in both chromaticity and luminance of the displayed color. This aims at enhancing the contrast between virtual objects and the real background as well as keeping the consistency with the original displayed color. We assess the performance of our approach using a simulated OST-HMD environment and an off-the-shelf OST-HMD. Experimental results from objective evaluations and subjective user studies demonstrate that the proposed approach makes rendered virtual objects more distinguishable from the surrounding background, thereby bringing a better visual experience.

We present our study on the design and evaluation of sound samples for motion perception in a Virtual Reality (VR) application. In previous study we found our sound samples to be incoherent with the VR visual channel. In current research we designed four new samples and tested them adapting standard subjective evaluation protocols to our needs. Twenty participants participated to the study and rated each animation in Realism, Matching and Plausibility. Significant differences were found among the sounds and discussion rose on the need for realism in VR applications as well as users' expectation and how it could influence their experience.

Choosing the appropriate soft/hard material is important for designing a product such as sofa or bed, but typically limited by the number of physical materials that the designer owns. Pseudo-haptic feedback is an alternative way that enables designer to roughly simulate material properties (e.g., softness, hardness) by only generating the visual illusion. However, the current technique is limited within video see-through augmented reality, in which the user interact in a real space while looking at a virtual space. This paper explores the possibility to realize pseudo-haptic feedback for touching objects in spatial augmented reality. We investigate and compare effects of visually superimposing a projection graphics onto the surface of a touched object and the fingernail/finger for changing the surface tactile perception. The potential of our method is discussed through a preliminary user study.

This paper describes a pilot study to investigate participants' perceptions of usefulness and usability of our developed Plant Mixed Reality System (PMRS), designed for primary school children (11-12 years old). Preliminary results seemed to indicate participants' intention to use PMRS for learning. The paper concludes with a discussion on how the findings were used to formulate a second study based on the Technology Acceptance Model, and discuss implications on intention to use and acceptance of mixed reality systems for education.

Purpose: This position paper aims to: (1) summarise the current state of the Australian disability support sector and its need to advance training practices that enhance empathetic behaviours; (2) Highlight how virtual reality technology is currently being deployed in training in the sector; and (3) highlight challenges that may arise from a lack of user acceptance testing and user experience design considerations, and why future studies are needed to explore these factors. Background: The disability support industry has responded to new market demands for DSWs to provide quality supports that take a client-centred approach. To achieve this, some disability service providers have turned to virtual reality. Position: Due to factors such as limited user acceptance testing, lack of user experience design practices, such undertakings may prove to be an expensive and ineffective exercise. Future studies should focus on ways to increase the sector's acceptance of virtual reality interventions. Design considerations need to ensure the product is intuitive, easy to learn, and able to be used as intended. Conclusion: Future design considerations include, (1) their level of technical literacy, (2) their attitude and perception of technology, and (3) how to communicate the onboarding message and incorporate a co-design approach. Z8 0

Wireless virtual reality integrated multidisciplinary technology, combined with related industries and fields, has changed the way of human-computer interaction and opened up a new field of user experience. In recent years, with the rapid improvement of computer technology and hardware conditions, interactive technology has developed rapidly. The existing wireless virtual reality interactive system is too single and cannot be used in multiple environments. The original system requires a large number of sensor equipment, the cost is high, and the traditional perception technology is too restrictive and cannot realize human-computer interaction more naturally. This paper proposes a dual intention perception algorithm based on the fusion of touch (obtained by experimental simulation equipment), hearing, and vision. The algorithm can perceive the user's operation intention through the user's natural behavior and can identify the user's two intentions at the same time. This paper proposes a navigational interactive mode, which provides users with multimodal intelligent navigation through intelligent perception of user intent and experimental progress. We determine the impact model of the interactive system effect evaluation and analyze its effect evaluation strategy in depth and then further quantify the indicators under the four effect dimensions of information perception, artistic reflection, social entertainment, and aesthetic experience. A combination of qualitative and quantitative methods was used to carry out relevant research on effect evaluation, usability test, and questionnaire interview. The experimental results show that this interactive system has better entertainment effects than other forms of film and television animation, but still needs to pay attention to and strengthen the construction and embodiment of film and television animation content, as well as the optimization and perfection of the fault-tolerant mechanism in the design process.

Collaborative design of manufactured products is based on expertise sharing and decision making. It is a cognitive process where expert information must be communicated to collaborators for efficient decisions. CAD tools remain widely dedicated to single user and do not ease the collaboration process. With new arising technology including 3D devices, one can imagine that complex 3D information will be more easily shared by designers. Indeed, even if virtual reality technologies are not new, one can observe that few use-cases are deployed within industrial processes. Here several use-cases are analyzed to classify the interest of 2D rendering respect to 3D rendering within cognitive information sharing. A first qualitative analysis grid is proposed. The success of technology deployment depends on the capacity for the technology to appear as natural for the processed action.

Agents in virtual environments require a combination of perception and action to behave in an autonomous way. We extend a software architecture for the management of actions blending, called AGENTlib, with a perception mechanism. The perception system provides a uniform interface to various techniques in the field of virtual perception, including synthetic vision, database access and perception persistency We describe the framework we designed to efficiently filter valuable information from the scene and we address concerns about computation redundancy and data propagation through multiple filtering modules.

Virtual reality art is reshaping digital art experiences but may elicit different first impressions across disparate age groups. We investigate first impressions of VR colour pickers and the impact of a virtual companion via an online survey with 63 adults and 24 older adults. The colour pickers differed significantly in perceived hedonic qualities. We found no statistical differences between perceptions of adults and older adults. The virtual companion had no significant effect on participants' overall experiences. However, we found statistical trends where older adults rated the virtual companion higher in terms of companionship and making VR art more engaging.

Time Machine is an immersive Virtual Reality installation that explains - in simple terms - the Striatal Beat Frequency (SBF) model of time perception. The installation was created as a collaboration between neuroscientists within the field of time perception along with a team of digital designers and audio composers/engineers. This paper outlines the process, as well as the lessons learned, while designing the virtual reality experience that aims to simplify a complex idea to a novice audience. The authors describe in detail the process of creating the world, the user experience mechanics and the methods of placing information in the virtual place in order to enhance the learning experience. The work was showcased at the 4th International Conference on Time Perspective, where the authors collected feedback from the audience. The paper concludes with a reflection on the work and some suggestions for the next iteration of the project.

Modern driver-assist and monitoring systems are severely limited by the lack of a precise understanding of how humans localize and predict the position of neighboring road users. Virtual Reality (VR) is a cost-efficient means to investigate these matters. However, human perception works differently in reality and in immersive virtual environments, with visible differences even between different VR environments. Therefore, when exploring human perception, the relevant perceptive parameters should first be characterized in the specific VR environment. In this paper, we report the results of two experiments that were designed to assess localization and prediction accuracy of static and moving visual targets in a VR setup developed using broadly available hardware and software solutions. Results of the first experiment provide a reference measure of the significant effect that distance and eccentricity have on localization error for static visual targets, while the second experiment shows the effect of time variables and contextual information on the localization accuracy of moving targets. These results provide a solid basis to test in VR the effects of different ergonomics and driver-vehicle interaction designs on perception accuracy.

Increasing the perception of climate data plays an important role in meteorological data analysis. However, the presentation and human-computer interaction of most existing climate data display systems is still limited to two-dimensional screen space, which affects the user's acquisition analysis and understanding of data. In order to help users to obtain a greater degree of information and improve user experience, this paper designs a vector climate data perception system based on virtual reality and gesture interaction techniques by using data visualization and dynamic gesture interaction. The experiments show that the proposed intuitive visual analysis system of 3D space data provides users with a highly immersive data acquisition platform, and helps users to understand data more effectively. Z8 2

Emotions affect our perception, attention, and behavior. Hereby, the emotional state is greatly affected by the surrounding environment that can seamlessly be designed in Virtual Reality (VR). However, research typically does not account for the influence of the environment on participants' emotions, even if this influence might alter acquired data. To mitigate the impact, we formulated a design space that explains how the creation of virtual environments influences emotions. Furthermore, we present EmotionEditor, a toolbox that assists researchers in rapidly developing virtual environments that influence and asses the users' emotional state. We evaluated the capability of EmotionEditor to elicit emotions in a lab study (n=30). Based on interviews with VR experts (n=13), we investigate how they consider the effect of emotions in their research, how the EmotionEditor can prospectively support them, and analyze prevalent challenges in the design as well as development of VR user studies.

An increasing number of virtual reality applications require environments that emulate real-world conditions. These environments often involve dynamic virtual humans showing realistic behaviors. Understanding user perception and navigation among these virtual agents is key for designing realistic and effective environments featuring groups of virtual humans. While collision risk significantly influences human locomotion in the real world, this risk is largely absent in virtual settings. This paper studies the impact of the expected collision feedback on user perception and interaction with virtual crowds. We examine the effectiveness of commonly used collision feedback techniques (auditory cues and tactile vibrations) as well as inducing participants to expect that a physical bump with a real person might occur, as if some virtual humans actually correspond to real persons embodied into them and sharing the same physical space. Our results indicate that the expected collision feedback significantly influences both participant behavior-encompassing global navigation and local movements-and subjective perceptions of presence and copresence. Specifically, the introduction of a perceived risk of actual collision was found to significantly impact global navigation strategies and increase the sense of presence. Auditory cues had a similar effect on global navigation and additionally enhanced the sense of copresence. In contrast, vibrotactile feedback was primarily effective in influencing local movements.

The virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) applications have been widely used in a variety of fields; one of the key requirements in a VR or AR system is to understand how users perceive depth in the virtual environment and AR. Three different graphics depth cues are designed in shuffleboard to explore what kind of graphics depth cues are beneficial for depth perception. We also conduct a depth-matching experiment to compare performance in VR and AR systems using an optical see-through head-mounted display (HMD). The result shows that the absolute error increases as the distance becomes farther. Analysis from the inverse of distance shows that box depth cues have a significant effect on depth perception, while the points depth cues and line depth cues have no significant effect. The error in diopter in AR experiment is lower than that in VR experiment. Participants in the AR experiment under medium illuminance condition have less error than those under low and high illuminance conditions. Men have less error than women in certain display conditions, but the advantage disappears when there is a strong depth cue. Besides, there is no significant effect of completion time on depth perception.

We report on a workshop bringing together researchers working in soma design and sensory misalignment. Creating experiences that make use of sensory misalignment has become increasingly common, often associated with virtual reality research. However, little attention has been paid to how to design such experiences. We argue that the practice of soma design is a relevant candidate method for designing misalignment experiences, since soma design brings with it concepts such as estrangement and disrupting the habitual as a path to design. We further argue that sensory misalignment may in turn extend soma design methods, adding methods for explicitly disrupting sensory perception using technology interventions. Finally, we draw on the findings of that workshop to discuss the ideas of: pluralism in experience; orchestration of overall experience; as well as the broader intersection of soma design and sensory misalignment approaches.

The 21st century witnesses innovative concepts in the field of technology and multimedia integrated with networking. The new concept is referred to as Virtual Reality, which is a combination of multimedia and networking. Virtual Reality is wholly different from other advanced technologies that are visually appealing. The main features of virtual reality are identified as spatial conception, perception comprehensiveness, and information interaction. Apart from the above, other specialties of virtual reality are the generation of 3D images and presenting information in a unique way. These features are generally applied across different fields, such as environmental design, architecture, public art design, and other industries. Virtual Reality processes the precise data calculation and then optimises the display experience of the users/customer. It also fulfills customers needs and enhances user satisfaction by exchanging valuable information. The entire gaming industry applies Virtual Reality, and thus, the world looks more mature. Even the tourism industry has started using Virtual Reality which has the potential to bring novel experiences and vitality to the audience. Therefore, it can be confirmed that the application of Virtual Reality will undergo continuous development and advancement, adjusting to the needs of the industries. The primary aim of this study is to gain an in-depth understanding of the Virtual Reality concept and the application of Virtual Reality in art design and to examine the impact of Virtual Reality on public art design. This article also reviews the features of Virtual Reality and its application in art designs. The advantages of Virtual Reality will also be discussed broadly. At last, this study proposes a feasibility model of Virtual Reality that can be applied in public art design.

This preliminary study investigated user experiences in VR horror games, highlighting fear-triggering and gender-based differences in perception. By utilizing a scientifically validated and specially designed questionnaire, we successfully collected questionnaire data from 23 subjects for an early empirical study of fear induction in a virtual reality gaming environment. The early findings suggest that visual restrictions and ambient sound-enhanced realism may be more effective in intensifying the fear experience. Participants exhibited a tendency to avoid playing alone or during night-time, underscoring the significant psychological impact of VR horror games. The study also revealed a distinct gender difference in fear perception, with female participants exhibiting a higher sensitivity to fear stimuli. However, the preference for different types of horror games was not solely dominated by males; it varied depending on factors such as the game's pace, its objectives, and the nature of the fear stimulant.

The paper describes the design and implementation of a novel low cost virtual rugby decision making interactive for use in a visitor centre. Original laboratory-based experimental work in decision making in rugby, using a virtual reality headset [1] is adapted for use in a public visitor centre, with consideration given to usability, costs, practicality and health and safety. Movement of professional rugby players was captured and animated within a virtually recreated stadium. Users then interact with these virtual representations via use of a low-cost sensor (Microsoft Kinect) to attempt to block them. Retaining the principles of perception and action, egocentric viewpoint, immersion, sense of presence, representative design and game design the system delivers an engaging and effective interactive to illustrate the underlying scientific principles of deceptive movement. User testing highlighted the need for usability, system robustness, fair and accurate scoring, appropriate level of difficulty and enjoyment.

Augmented Reality (AR) embeds virtual content in physical spaces, including virtual agents that are known to exert a social presence on users. Existing design guidelines for AR rarely consider the social implications of an agent's personal space (PS) and that it can impact user behavior and arousal. We report an experiment (N=54) where participants interacted with agents in an AR art gallery scenario. When participants approached six virtual agents (i.e., two males, two females, a humanoid robot, and a pillar) to ask for directions, we found that participants respected the agents' PS and modulated interpersonal distances according to the human-like agents' perceived gender. When participants were instructed to walk through the agents, we observed heightened skin-conductance levels that indicate physiological arousal. These results are discussed in terms of proxemic theory that result in design recommendations for implementing pervasive AR experiences with virtual agents.

"Virtual-Physical Perceptual Manipulations" (VPPMs) such as redirected walking and haptics expand the user's capacity to interact with Virtual Reality (VR) beyond what would ordinarily physically be possible. VPPMs leverage knowledge of the limits of human perception to effect changes in the user's physical movements, becoming able to (perceptibly and imperceptibly) nudge their physical actions to enhance interactivity in VR. We explore the risks posed by the malicious use of VPPMs. First, we define, conceptualize and demonstrate the existence of VPPMs. Next, using speculative design workshops, we explore and characterize the threats/risks posed, proposing mitigations and preventative recommendations against the malicious use of VPPMs. Finally, we implement two sample applications to demonstrate how existing VPPMs could be trivially subverted to create the potential for physical harm. This paper aims to raise awareness that the current way we apply and publish VPPMs can lead to malicious exploits of our perceptual vulnerabilities.

Humans can estimate the shape of a wielded object through the illusory feeling of the mass properties of the object obtained using their hands. Even though the shape of hand-held objects influences immersion and realism in virtual reality (VR), it is difficult to design VR controllers for rendering desired shapes according to the perceptions derived from the illusory effects of mass properties and shape perception. We propose Transcalibur, which is a hand-held VR controller that can render a 2D shape by changing its mass properties on a 2D planar area. We built a computational perception model using a data-driven approach from the collected data pairs of mass properties and perceived shapes. This enables Transcalibur to easily and effectively provide convincing shape perception based on complex illusory effects. Our user study showed that the system succeeded in providing the perception of various desired shapes in a virtual environment.

Augmented (AR) and Mixed Reality (MR) technologies are enablers of the Industry 4.0 paradigm and are spreading at high speed in production. Main applications include design, training, and assembly guidance. The latter is a pressing concern, because assembly is the process that accounts for the biggest portion of total cost within production. Teaching and guiding operators to assemble with minimal effort and error rates is pivotal. This work presents the development of a comprehensive MR application for guiding novice operators in following simple assembly instructions. The app follows innovative programming logic and component tracking in a dynamic environment, providing an immersive experience that includes different guidance aids. The application was tested by experienced and novice users, data were drawn from the performed experiments, and a questionnaire was submitted to collect the users' perception. Results indicate that the MR application was easy to follow and even gave confidence to inexperienced subjects. The guidance support was perceived as useful by the users, though at times invasive in the field of view. Further development effort is required to draw from this work a complete and usable architecture for MR application in assembly, but this research forms the basis to achieve better, more consistent instructions for assembly guidance based on component tracking.

This study presents a strengths-based framework for designing virtual reality experiences tailored to the needs and abilities of autistic individuals. Recognizing the potential of virtual reality to provide engaging and immersive learning environments, the framework aligns the strengths and preferences of autistic users with the affordances of virtual reality platforms. Drawing on the existing literature and empirical findings, the framework highlights key areas of alignment, including visual perception, anxiety management, attention to differences, concrete thinking, and response to positive feedback. The framework emphasizes the importance of involving autistic individuals in the co-design and co-creation of virtual reality technologies to ensure a more tailored and preferred user experience. By adopting a strengths-based approach and actively involving autistic individuals, the design and implementation of virtual reality interventions can better address their unique needs and foster positive outcomes. The study concludes by advocating for continued research and collaboration to advance the field of virtual reality technology for autistic individuals and to work toward shared goals with the autistic community. Lay abstract Virtual reality has been studied for its potential in supporting individuals with autism, but existing research often focuses on deficits and lacks consideration of individual preferences and strengths. This article introduces a framework that emphasizes the strengths and abilities of autistic individuals when designing virtual reality interventions. It builds upon an existing taxonomy of educational technology affordances and extends it to align with the unique needs of autistic individuals. The framework provides guidance for incorporating virtual reality technology that supports and amplifies autistic strengths, such as visual perception and response to positive feedback. The framework has implications for practice, research, and policy. For practitioners, it offers a tool for designing virtual reality experiences that cater to the strengths of autistic individuals, enhancing engagement and educational outcomes. Researchers can utilize the framework to guide the development of user-centered virtual reality interventions and expand our understanding of the potential benefits of virtual reality for autistic populations. Policymakers and educators can consider this framework when incorporating virtual reality into educational settings, ensuring that virtual reality technology is used in a way that aligns with the strengths and needs of autistic learners. Overall, the framework promotes a strengths-based approach in utilizing virtual reality technology for individuals with autism, fostering inclusivity and maximizing the benefits of immersive experiences. Z8 0

Rendering the user's body in virtual reality increases immersion and presence - the illusion of 'being there'. Recent technology enables determining the pose and position of the hands to render them accordingly while interacting within the virtual environment. Virtual reality applications often use realistic male or female hands, mimic robotic hands, or cartoon hands. However, it is unclear how users perceive different hand styles. We conducted a study with 14 male and 14 female participants in virtual reality to investigate the effect of gender on the perception of six different hands. Quantitative and qualitative results show that women perceive lower levels of presence while using male avatar hands and male perceive lower levels of presence using non-human avatar hands. While women dislike male hands, men accept and feel presence with avatar hands of both genders. Our results highlight the importance of considering the users' diversity when designing virtual reality experiences.

Unaware haptic perception is often inferred but rarely demonstrated empirically. In this paper we present evidence for the effects of unaware haptic stimuli on users' motor interaction with virtual objects. Using a 3D hapto-visual virtual reality, we ran a texture-difference recognition test in which subjects glided a pen-like stylus along a virtual surface with varying roughness. We found that subjects were not aware of changes in texture roughness below a threshold limit, yet the normal force they applied changed. Subjects did not recognize on a cognitive level changes in the sensory cues, but behaved as if they did. These results suggest that performance can be affected through subliminal cues. Based on results from visual perception studies, we also tested the impact of context background conditions on the perception of unaware cues. We measured the threshold of awareness to changes in texture for several reference stimuli. We found that indeed, as in visual perception, this threshold for discriminating between the roughness of surfaces increases when the texture gets smoother, that is, sensitivity changes as a function of the background context. The implications of this work are mainly in the design of VR, especially for the remote manipulation of objects.

Virtual digital exhibitions attract public attention as they can provide an immersive aesthetic experience augmented by virtual reality (VR) technologies. However, since each visitor is placed in an isolated virtual environment while using VR devices, the exhibitions lose the immediate emotional perception between visitors. In order to enable visitors to perceive the communicative value of the digital exhibitions, increasing the user's feeling of immersion and engagement in the virtual environment is crucial. Existing experience designs of VR exhibitions put more effort into developing the imitation of physical exhibited space, rather than display instant emotional facial expressions of visitors. Thus, a supporting system design on how to enhance the visitor's real-time emotional communication in the VR exhibitions experience is needed at present. An emotional color label of visitors in exhibitions and an emotaion recognition and display model in the virtual environment are proposed to alleviate this issue. Our research has the potential to enhance the user's emotional experience and engagement in VR exhibitions and other forms of virtual digital exhibition.

A key aspect of Virtual Reality (VR) applications is the ability to move in the environment, which relies on the illusion of self-motion to create a good user experience. Self-motion has traditionally been studied in psychophysical studies in which a range of wording has been adopted to describe self-motion. However, it is not clear from current research whether the words used in self-motion studies match study participants' own intuitions about the experience of self-motion. We argue that the terminology used in self-motion studies should be drawn from a participant perspective to improve validity. We undertook an online study involving VR self-motion and card-sorting with 50 participants to examine current self-motion terminology. We found that participants were not familiar with the concept of self-motion and that the virtual scene itself might suggest different terminology. We suggest how studies on motion perception in VR should be designed to better reflect participants' vernacular.

This paper describes a research project which attempts to analyse human perception of and interaction with virtual art representations in an online, three-dimensional graphic environment. Specifically, discerning how user experience may relate to engagement, immersion and interaction. A series of experiments are described, involving participants who experienced virtual artworks in multiple gallery environments and utilise different viewing perspectives. The paper then provides an analysis of the data recorded and gathered during user-testing. The experiments are undertaken within a specific virtual art gallery in the online virtual world Second Life. Demographic data is linked to the user experience focusing on the use of first person (egocentric) and third person (exocentric) screen perspectives. An examination of the users perception of both two-dimensional and three-dimensional virtual artefacts is also provided. This paper concludes with an insight into the usability and effectiveness of designing, presenting and experiencing art in a threedimensional virtual environment.

Force feedback gloves have found many applications in fields such as teleoperation and virtual reality. In order to enhance the immersive feeling of interaction with remote or virtual environments, glove-like haptic devices are used, which enable users to touch and manipulate virtual objects in a more intuitive and direct way via the dexterous manipulation and sensitive perception capabilities of human hands. In this survey, we aim to identify the gaps between existing force feedback gloves and the desired ones that can provide robust and realistic sensation of the interaction with diverse virtual environments. By examining existing force feedback gloves, the pros and cons of existing design solutions to the major sub-systems including sensing, actuation, control, transmission and structure are discussed. Future research topics are put forward with design challenges being elaborated. Innovative design solutions are needed to enable the utility of wearable haptic gloves in the upcoming virtual reality era.

Remote collaboration for construction site management is challenging. Building Information Modeling (BIM) provides the potential for remote collaboration based on its powerful data compatibility. Furthermore, the recently evolving Mixed Reality technology improves visual perception by superimposing 3D virtual BIM objects on real-world artifacts. This study proposes a remote collaboration system based on BIM in Mixed Reality. This system consists of three-unit systems: (1) Field Operator System (FOS), (2) Communication Server, and (3) Office Manager System (OMS). FOS was developed based on MR smart glasses for a field operator. The field operator can manipulate virtual BIM objects with finger-pointing cues and share the view with an office manager. FOS creates Mixed Reality Capture (MRC) video, the combined image of real-world images of existing artifacts in the construction site with virtual BIM elements superimposed on them, and sends it through the Communication Server to OMS. Thus, the office manager can see the field operator's view through OMS based on a desktop or tablet PC. The office manager can give instructions to a field operator by voice through OMS. A user test was conducted to evaluate the applicability of the developed prototype system. As a result of the test, it was found that most of the testers had a positive evaluation of the developed system. This paper discusses the development of the BIM and MR-based remote collaboration and the test results.

An hour spent with friends seems shorter than an hour waiting for a medical appointment. Many physiological and psychological factors, such as body temperature and emotions, have been shown to correlate with our subjective perception of time. Experiencing virtual reality (VR) has been observed to make users significantly underestimate the duration. This paper explores the effect of virtual environment characteristics on time perception, focusing on two key parameters: user engagement and environmental dynamics. We found that increased presence and interaction with the environment significantly decreased the users' estimation of the VR experience duration. Furthermore, while a dynamic environment lacks significance in shifting perception toward one specific direction, that is, underestimation or overestimation of the durations, it significantly distorts perceived temporal length. Exploiting these two factors' influence smartly constitutes a powerful tool in designing intelligent and adaptive virtual environments that can reduce stress, alleviate boredom, and improve well-being by adjusting the pace at which we experience the passage of time.

The window view is an important part of the daylighting design. The current window view analysis based on daylighting metrics does not respond well to user preferences. This study uses an office with a courtyard in Berkeley, CA, USA, as a case study to create a virtual reality-based window view evaluation tool and workflow to analyze the impact of different types of shading devices and different levels of exterior landscapes on user perception. This tool combines quantitative data based on daylighting metrics and users' subjective and physical responses with qualitative analysis based on user feedback and preferences. A two-way ANOVA was conducted in the study to demonstrate that the independent and interactive impacts of shading devices and exterior landscapes on user perception and satisfaction. The results show that users prefer shading types that block less of window views even though they may cause a higher probability of glare. Besides, advanced landscapes tend to enhance user satisfaction with shading devices. This new window evaluation method will help architects make more comprehensive decisions in shading device type selection and exterior landscape design.

Virtual reality and simulation are becoming increasingly important in modern society and it is essential to improve our understanding of system usability and efficacy from the users' perspective. This paper introduces a novel evaluation method designed to assess human user capability when undertaking technical and procedural training using virtual training systems. The evaluation method falls under the user-centered design and evaluation paradigm and draws on theories of cognitive, skill-based and affective learning outcomes. The method focuses on user interaction with haptic-audio-visual interfaces and the complexities related to variability in users' performance, and the adoption and acceptance of the technologies. A large scale user study focusing on object assembly training tasks involving selecting, rotating, releasing, inserting, and manipulating three-dimensional objects was performed. The study demonstrated the advantages of the method in obtaining valuable multimodal information for accurate and comprehensive evaluation of virtual training system efficacy. The study investigated how well users learn, perform, adapt to, and perceive the virtual training. The results of the study revealed valuable aspects of the design and evaluation of virtual training systems contributing to an improved understanding of more usable virtual training systems.

We explored the social influence of humor in a virtual human counselor's self-disclosure while also varying the ethnicity of the virtual counselor. In a 2x3 experiment (humor and ethnicity of the virtual human counselor), participants experienced counseling interview interactions via Skype on a smartphone. We measured user responses to and perceptions of the virtual human counselor. The results demonstrate that humor positively affects user responses to and perceptions of a virtual counselor. The results further suggest that matching styles of humor with a virtual counselor's ethnicity influences user responses and perceptions. The results offer insight into the effective design and development of realistic and believable virtual human counselors. Furthermore, they illuminate the potential use of humor to enhance self-disclosure in human-agent interactions.

Nowadays, digital and virtual user experiences lack of multisensory feedback necessary to assess product and material properties. Scientific literature related to haptic interface technology to address this issue is still limited and mostly employs a simulation-type approach. Yet, there are a few studies using and combining sensory modalities, such as visual and auditory stimuli. On the one hand, this research provides a literature framework with respect to interaction with digital and virtual materials, analyzing relevant case studies and providing guidelines for designing the interaction. On the other hand, we conceptualize a cross-modal approach, i.e., Perception-Driven Design, by exploiting two human senses - vision and hearing - in order to provide HCI researchers and interaction designers a novel approach not only to "simulate" but also "evoke" the actual tactile feedback related to the material properties. These interfaces would allow users to interact with displayed material subjected to deformation based on the gesture the user performs and producing visual feedback. Additionally, audio feedback could be recorded or synthetized in real-time, by exploiting simulated sounds of real materials or evocative sounds, in combination to the visual material deformation. The research objective is to develop a design approach for future researchers in the field of interaction, useful for designing digital and virtual interfaces valuable in all fields that highly rely on tactile perception as their pillar (e. g., fashion, furniture, automotive).

Technology provides Virtual Reality (VR) with increasing levels of realism: high-performance head-mounted displays enable delivering immersive experiences that provide users with higher levels of engagement. Moreover, VR platforms, treadmills, and motion tracking systems add a physical dimension to interaction that aims at increasing realism by enabling users to use their body to control characters' movements in a virtual scenario. However, current systems suffer from one main limitation: the physical simulation space is confined, whereas VR supports rendering infinitely large scenarios. In this paper, we investigate the human factors involved in the design of physically-immersive VR environments, with specific regard to the perception of virtual and physical space in locomotion tasks. Finally, we discuss strategies for designing experiences that enable optimizing the use of the available physical space and support larger virtual scenarios without impacting realism.

The industrial metaverse is an emerging paradigm of integrated information technologies. A human -robot collaboration assembly system is developed using extended reality (XR) and blockchain technologies. This system includes the physical, virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR) supporting, and blockchain systems. Virtual avatars represent physical operators and mobile robots in the XR environment. The VR system emulates real-time physical operations, facilitating pre -planning, online task optimization, and converting strategic decisions into executable instructions for physical robots. The AR system enhances the cognitive experience of intelligent operators, contributing to decision -making and VR system control through multi -modal interactions. The integration of the VR and AR systems in perception -decision -control enables real-time process optimization and the reverse control of physical operations. The system is implemented using a decentralized blockchain and end -edge -cloud collaborative network architecture to regulate interaction permissions for each scene characters, ensuring systematic functionality, robust communication, and comprehensive data management. A case study of a gearbox assembly is used to demonstrate the system 's development and efficacy. The results indicate the VR system 's comprehensive perception and the AR system 's detailed insights, yielding reliable information on global and local levels. The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms and spatiotemporal visualization during VR decision -making provides computational advantages. Incorporating human input into the AR system enables human -in -the -loop operational decision -making, providing optimal instructions to improve human -robot collaboration performance. Notably, the fusion of blockchain and end -edge -cloud architectures augments inter -system data exchange by efficiently managing and processing human -robot interactions and their diverse avatars. This system offers an innovative approach to human -robot collaboration assembly in manufacturing, with implications for analogous contexts.

We present VRiAssist, an eye-tracking-based visual assistance tool designed to help people with visual impairments interact with virtual reality environments. VRiAssist's visual enhancements dynamically follow a user's gaze to project corrections on the affected area of the user's eyes. VRiAssist provides a distortion correction tool to revert the distortions created by bumps on the retina, a color/brightness correction tool that improves contrast and color perception, and an adjustable magnification tool. The results of a small 5 person user study indicate that VRiAssist helped users see better in the virtual environment depending on their level of visual impairment.

Augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) has entered the mass market and, with it, will soon eye tracking as a core technology for next generation head-mounted displays (HMDs). In contrast to existing gaze interfaces, the 3D nature of AR and VR requires estimating a user's gaze in 3D. While first applications, such as foveated rendering, hint at the compelling potential of combining HMDs and gaze, a systematic analysis is missing. To fill this gap, we present the first design space for gaze interaction on HMDs. Our design space covers human depth perception and technical requirements in two dimensions aiming to identify challenges and opportunities for interaction design. As such, our design space provides a comprehensive overview and serves as an important guideline for researchers and practitioners working on gaze interaction on HMDs. We further demonstrate how our design space is used in practice by presenting two interactive applications: EyeHealth and XRay-Vision.

With the increasing pressure of social life, people generally have different degrees of psychological problems, which brings serious troubles to people's life and work. As one of the main forms of art, animation is a good medicine for breaking fantasy and returning to reality. Animation is one of the ways of art therapy, and animation art design is the soul of animation therapy. However, the art design of traditional animation cannot bring a strong sense of resonance and cannot arouse people's inner emotions. Virtual reality can bring users an immersive experience, so it can really immerse the audience and release psychological pressure. The article firstly reoptimizes animation modeling technology and then combines it with art design, comprehensively uses art design and interactive technology to generate virtual space, and finally puts forward the concept of animation art design based on virtual reality technology. It aims to construct virtual animation from animation art design to help patients relieve psychological barriers. After repeated comparison experiments, it can be found that in the process of watching interactive animations on the virtual reality platform, if the overall style of the animation is more comfortable and warm, the user's psychological perception will reach 78%, and the emotional fluctuation range will be less than 10%. When the animation style is relatively dark and depressing, the user's psychological perception is only 45%, and the audience is very likely to think of a bad life experience, and the possibility of causing psychological disorders is 69.1%. This shows that the warm and comfortable animation art design can smooth people's emotional fluctuations and relieve psychological obstacles.

The availability and affordability of consumer virtual reality (VR) devices have fueled their adoption during the product design process. High fidelity virtual prototypes can be created more quickly and are more cost-effective than using traditional methods, but certain product features are still difficult to evaluate, resulting in perceptual differences when a product is assessed using different visualization techniques. In this paper, we report two case studies in which a group of participants evaluated different designs of a product typology (i.e., a watering can) as presented in VR, VR with passive haptics (VRPH) and in a real setting (R) for the first case study, and VR and R for the second case study. The semantic differential technique was used for product evaluation, and an inferential statistical method using aligned rank transform (ART) proceedings was applied to determine perceptual differences between groups. Our results showed that product characteristics assessed by touch are the most susceptible to being affected by the environment, while the user background can have an effect in some product features.

Testing products during the design process can help design teams anticipate user needs and predict a positive emotional response. Emerging technologies, e.g., Virtual Reality (VR), allow designers to test products in a more sophisticated manner alongside traditional approaches like sketches, photographs or physical prototypes. In this paper, we present the results of a study conducted to evaluate the feasibility of seven visualization techniques for product assessment within the framework of emotional design, suggesting that the user's perception depends on the visualization technique used to present the product. This research provides recommendations for product evaluation using physical, virtual, or conceptual prototypes to analyze the user's emotional response throughout 19 parameters. Our results indicate that the use of virtual environments, including VR and VR with Passive Haptics (VRPH), can facilitate user participation in the design process, although these visualization techniques may also exaggerate the emotions perceived by users. In this context, VRPH tends to overstate the tactile perception of the product. Additionally, our results reveal that both virtual and conceptual environments can amplify a user's likelihood to purchase a product. However, the latter setting could also potentially lead to confusion among users in regards to their perception of the product's weight, dimensions, and cost. Based on these findings, the authors encourage industrial designers to develop new methodologies to optimize design process and minimize costs. Z8 0

Most human computer interfaces impose a certain level of additional cognitive load to the user task. In this project we study the use of VR to evaluate the user competency for safe behavior in work environments. We propose an assessment of two interfaces with different levels of cognitive load for locomotion in a risk perception task. We describe user experiments with two similar groups of subjects, each using one of the interfaces. We identified important open questions on the design of this kind of interface.

Co-located haptic feedback in mixed and augmented reality environments can improve realism and user performance, but it also requires careful system design and calibration. In this poster, we determine the thresholds for perceiving co-location errors through two psychophysics experiments in a typical fine-motor manipulation task. In these experiments we simulate the two fundamental ways of implementing VHAR systems: first, attaching a real tool; second, augmenting a virtual tool. We determined the just-noticeable co-location errors for position and orientation in both experiments and found that users are significantly more sensitive to co-location errors with virtual tools. Our overall findings are useful for designing visuo-haptic augmented reality workspaces and calibration procedures.

Spatial decision-making in different virtual environments may vary based on the levels of spatial awareness experienced within Virtual Reality (VR) systems. Features and characteristics of VR systems may act as facilitators or distractors of spatial awareness, which can result in extreme variations in user spatial decisions. This research explored the capability of an Immersive Virtual Reality Interactive Environment (IVRIE) and a desktop-based VR (DT system) in reducing extreme variations in spatial decisions and inconsistent design results. Users' spatial decisions, performance, and design results in both systems were studied regarding the impact of these two systems' features on users, including the sense of immersion, types of interaction, and usage of eye-level view in spatial designs. The design results produced in both systems were compared considering the types of enclosure, surface texture, scale, and spatial function. Descriptive and inferential statistical comparisons and testing using quantitative and qualitative data were applied to determine participants' performance regarding the production of spatial outliers in each system. The results showed that IVRIE was more effective than the DT system fostering a consistency of space sizes and reducing outliers.

This brief presents a quantitative study of the effects of virtual surface stiffness in a simulated haptic environment on the haptic perception of detail. Specifically, the haptic perception of detail is characterized by identification, detection, and discrimination of round and square cross section ridges. Test results indicate that performance, measured as a percent correct score in the perception experiments, improves in a nonlinear fashion as the maximum level of virtual surface stiffness in the simulation increases. Further, test subjects appeared to reach a limit in their perception capabilities at maximum stiffness levels of 300 to 400 N/m, while the hardware was capable of 1000 N/m of maximum virtual surface stiffness. These results indicate that haptic interface hardware may be able to convey sufficient perceptual information to the user with relatively low levels of virtual surface stiffness.

Design review (DR) is a product development (PD) activity used to inspect the technical characteristics of a design solution. Immersive virtual reality (IVR) technology enables the presentation of spatial information and interaction with 3D CAD models inside an immersive virtual environment (IVE). Such capabilities have shown the potential to mitigate the cognitive load needed for the visual perception of spatial information and, consequently, enhance design understanding and DR performance. Thus, an increasing number of studies have explored the effect of IVR technology on DR activities in different domains. However, determining when the implementation of IVR technology rather than a conventional user interface for DRs in mechanical engineering PD projects will be beneficial remains unclear. Hence, a conceptual DR experimental study was conducted to investigate the differences in the ability of engineering students to identify mechanisms and understand their functions when a design solution for a technical system is presented in an IVE by IVR technology and in a non-immersive virtual environment (nIVE) by a conventional user interface (monitor display, keyboard, and mouse). Data were collected by performing DR tasks and having participants complete a prior experience questionnaire, presence questionnaire, and mental rotations test. Findings of the study indicate that IVR does not support an enhanced ability of engineering students to identify mechanisms and understand their functions compared with a conventional user interface. Z8 0

Recent research indicates that Virtual Reality (VR) as a communication tool to convey design intent and construction methodologies in the built environment sector has been utilized to varied degrees. Currently, the effectiveness of VR has been demonstrated from conception to the final stages of projects in many fields, yet its potential within the Built Environment has still to realised, despite a variety of successful demonstrations. There is concern that the current utilisation of VR compromises its full potential, unsurprisingly, as environmental representations focus predominantly on the visual modality, regardless of the multi sensory nature of the spatial experience. In addition, there is a distinct paucity of research exploring the complex interaction of environmental design and the user, such as the role of attention or conceptual interpretation. This paper aims to identify the issues concerning the utilization of VR models to aid communication for the Built Environment with specific reference to human perception issues.

Educational institutions are increasingly adopting 3D virtual worlds (VWs) in their learning and teaching. In a 3D VW, users synchronously interact in 3D spaces via their graphical self-representations known as 'avatars' and converse in real-time through gestures, audio- and text-based communication. Second Life (SL) is the most widely used 3D VW in education. In the research project 'DELVE' (Design of Learning Spaces in 3D Multi-user Virtual Environments), we conducted a study to investigate users' perceptions of learning space designs in SL. By accessibility we mean designing 3D spaces so that they are accessible to users who may have a range of disabilities (mental or physical) in real life.

Virtual reality (VR) technology aims to transport the user to a virtual world, fully immersing them in an experience entirely separate from the real world. VR devices can use sensor data to draw deeply personal inferences (e.g., medical conditions, emotions) and can enable virtual crimes (e.g., theft, assault on virtual representations of the user) from which users have been shown to experience real, significant emotional pain. As such, VR may involve especially sensitive user data and interactions. To effectively mitigate such risks and design for safer experiences, we aim to understand end-user perceptions of VR risks and how, if at all, developers arc considering and addressing those risks. In this paper, we present the first work on VR security and privacy perceptions: a mixed-methods study involving semi-structured interviews with 20 VR users and developers, a survey of VR privacy policies, and an ethics co-design study with VR developers. We establish a foundational understanding of perceived risks in VR; raise concerns about the state of VR privacy policies; and contribute a concrete VR developer "code of ethics", created by developers, for developers.

Virtual reality (VR) potential to isolate users from the real world while producing a rich virtual environment where users act similarly to how they would, in reality, is still being investigated in several fields. In this work, we investigated the effects of product contextualisation and gender under an immersive VR application where users can explore in-depth a commercial product with a "hands-on" experience. An experimental between-subjects study was performed with 38 participants between 18 and 28 years. The product tested consisted of a double-door refrigerator equipped with a touchscreen. Two independent variables were studied: Context (the refrigerator was filled with food products and placed in a kitchen), Neutral Context (empty refrigerator displayed in an empty white room), and Gender (Female and Male). As for the dependent variables, we considered how clarified users felt about the product functionalities, its size, the extent users remember details and characteristics of the refrigerator, and the user's subjective workload. The evidence shows that contextualisation and gender have no impact on any dependent variables. Therefore, we concluded that presenting a product in its context does not benefit significantly benefit it. Thus, opting for a neutral context would be preferable to save computational costs and human resources necessary to build and run the higher complexity environments required to contextualise the product.

An ideal Virtual reality (VR) device should simultaneously provide retina-level resolution, wide field-of-view (FOV), and high refresh rate display, thereby bringing users into a deeply immersive virtual world. However, directly providing such high-quality display poses great challenges for display panel fabrication, real-time rendering, and data transfer. To address this issue, we introduce a dual-mode virtual reality system based on the spatio-temporal perception characteristics of human vision. The proposed VR system has a novel optical architecture. It can switch display modes according to the user's perceptual requirements for different display scenes to adaptively adjust the display spatial and temporal resolution based on a given display budget, thus providing users with the optimal visual perception quality. In this work, a complete design pipeline for the dual-mode VR optical system is proposed, and a bench-top prototype is built with only off-the-shelf hardware and components to verify its capability. Compared to the conventional VR system, our proposed scheme is more efficient and flexible in utilizing the display budget, and this work is expected to facilitate the development of the VR device based on the human visual system.

Virtual reality (VR) technology has been increasingly focusing on incorporating multimodal outputs to enhance the sense of immersion and realism. In this work, we developed AirWhisper, a modular wearable device that provides dynamic airflow feedback to enhance VR experiences. AirWhisper simulates wind from multiple directions around the user's head via four micro fans and 3D-printed attachments. We applied a Just Noticeable Difference study to support the design of the control system and explore the user's perception of the characteristics of the airflow in different directions. Through multimodal comparison experiments, we find that vision-airflow multimodality output can improve the user's VR experience from several perspectives. Finally, we designed scenarios with different airflow change patterns and different levels of interaction to test AirWhisper's performance in various contexts and explore the differences in users' perception of airflow under different virtual environment conditions. Our work shows the importance of developing human-centered multimodal feedback adaptive learning models that can make real-time dynamic changes based on the user's perceptual characteristics and environmental features.

This work explored how users' sensitivity to offsets in their avatars' virtual hands changes as they gain exposure to virtual reality. We conducted an experiment using a two-alternative forced choice (2-AFC) design over the course of 4 weeks, split into four sessions. The trials in each session had a variety of eight offset distances paired with eight offset directions (across a two-dimensional plane). While we did not find evidence that users became more sensitive to the offsets over time, we did find evidence of behavioral changes. Specifically, participants' head-hand coordination and completion time varied significantly as the sessions went on. We discuss the implications of both results and how they could influence our understanding of long-term calibration for perception-action coordination in virtual environments.

Immersion is a powerful and important interactive experience. However, little is known about how we can facilitate immersion in Mobile Augmented Reality (MAR) applications. Establishing the relationship between the virtual and the real is considered a promising way to promote immersion. To enhance immersion in MAR, we present BRIDGE, an interaction design model which builds a bridge between virtual and reality through the following three kinds of relationships: The virtual object has a close relationship with the real environment where the user is (contextual relationship); the virtual object has the same physical properties as the real world (physical relationship); the user imitates real-world interactions by directly interacting with the virtual world with their hands (interactive relationship). To evaluate the effect of the BRIDGE model, we implement it into the application design and conduct a comparative study of 32 users, and explore the immersive user experience of contextual and non-contextual, physical and non-physical, natural-interaction and screen-touch. The quantitative and qualitative results show that virtual objects have a stronger presence and users are more immersed in the environment when there is a contextual and physical relationship and users can interact naturally. This study is the first step to having a better understanding of the characteristics that contribute to an immersive experience and how they affect human perception and the presence of virtual objects. We hope to provide design insights for MAR applications based on these results.

The portrayed personality of virtual characters and agents is understood to influence how we perceive and engage with digital applications. Understanding how the features of speech and animation drive portrayed personality allows us to intentionally design characters to be more personalized and engaging. In this study, we use performance capture data of unscripted conversations from a variety of actors to explore the perceptual outcomes associated with the modalities of speech and motion. Specifically, we contrast full performance-driven characters to those portrayed by generated gestures and synthesized speech, analysing how the features of each influence portrayed personality according to the Big Five personality traits. We find that processing speech and motion can have mixed effects on such traits, with our results highlighting motion as the dominant modality for portraying extraversion and speech as dominant for communicating agreeableness and emotional stability. Our results can support the Extended Reality (XR) community in development of virtual characters, social agents and 3D User Interface (3DUI) agents portraying a range of targeted personalities.

This paper proposes to analyse user experience using two different immersive device categories: a cave automatic virtual environment (CAVE) and a head-mounted display (HMD). While most past studies focused on one of these devices to characterize user experience, we propose to fill the gap in comparative studies by conducting investigations using both devices, considering the same application, method and analysis. Through this study, we want to highlight the differences in user experience induced when using either one of these technologies in terms of visualization and interaction. We performed two experiments, each focusing on a specific aspect of the devices employed. The first one is related to distance perception when walking and the possible influence of the HMD's weight, which does not occur with CAVE systems as they do not require wearing any heavy equipment. Past studies found that weight may impact distance perception. Several walking distances were considered. Results revealed that the HMD's weight does not induce significant differences over short distances (above three meters). In the second experiment, we focused on distance perception over short distances. We considered that the HMD's screen being closer to the user's eyes than in CAVE systems might induce substantial distance perception differences, especially for short-distance interaction. We designed a task in which users had to move an object from one place to another at several distances using the CAVE and an HMD. Results revealed significant underestimation compared to reality as in past work, but no significant differences between the immersive devices. These results provide a better understanding of the differences between the two emblematic virtual reality displays. Z8 0

Recent development in the field of virtual reality technology brought new possibilities and exploitation of the old concept of stereoscopic projection. This 3D representation in combination with motion tracking of users and real-time interaction is present in actual products, such as HTC Vive, Oculus and Playstation VR, that are primarily dedicated for game industry. The research is focused on embracing the new possibilities of this technology, enabling to track the user's interactions in much immersed and interactive environment. This shift from pure observation of the environment to interaction with it allows us to better undrestand the user's space perception and decision making. During the experiment users were observed in the virtually modeled, well-known architectural icon, Barcelona Pavilion by Mies van der Rohe. The installation took place at computational design festival Sensorium in Bratislava and examined the concept of virtuality and reality as two opposites. Users were invited to take photographs in this pavilion, which reflected on recording the most interesting motives. Case studies focused on possibilities of using VR as a tool of analysis and design. Data gathered from user motion tracking and taken photographs were analyzed and evaluated to explore relations between motion and motivation in virtual space and relations in behavioral patterns of users to support the concept of movement in space as crucial aspect of space perception.

In virtual reality (VR), natural physical hand interaction allows users to interact with virtual content using physical gestures. While the most straightforward use of tracked hand motion maintains a oneto-one mapping between the physical and virtual world, some cases might benefit from changing this mapping through scaled or redirected interactions that modify the mapping between user's physical movements and the magnitude of corresponding virtual movements. However, large deviations in interaction fidelity may potentially provide distractions or a loss of perceived realism. Therefore, it is important to know the extent to which remapping techniques can be applied to scaled interactions in VR without users detecting the difference. In this paper, we extend prior research on redirected hand techniques by investigating user perception of scaled hand movements and estimating detection thresholds for different types of hand motion in VR. We conducted two experiments with a twoalternative forced -choice (2AFC) design to estimate the detection thresholds of remapped interaction. The first experiment tested the perception of motion scaling for simple hand movements, and the second experiment involved more complex reaching motions in a cognitively demanding game scenario. We present estimated detection thresholds for scale values that can be applied to virtual hand movements without users noticing the difference. Our findings show that detection thresholds differ significantly based on the type of hand movement (horizontal, vertical, and depth).

Using virtual models of a real environment to improve performance and design effective and efficient user interfaces has always been a matter of choice to provide control of complex environments. The concept of Dual Reality has gone one step further in synchronizing a real environment with its virtualization. So far, little is known about the design of effective Dual Reality interfaces. With this paper we want to shed light on this topic by comparing the strategies, performance and efficiency in a real, virtualized and a DR setting given a complex task. We propose a cost and efficiency measure for complex tasks, and have conducted an experiment based on a complex shelf planning task. Our results show that for certain tasks interacting with the virtual world yields better results, whereas the best effectivity can be observed in a Dual Reality setup. We discuss these results and present design guidelines for future Dual Reality interfaces.

Rotation gain is a crucial technique in Redirected Walking (RDW) for altering users' virtual trajectories. However, prior research [3] lacked a systematic exploration of how different visual characteristics impact users' perception of rotation speed. Therefore, this study proposes an investigation into this issue by designing eight VR scenes varying in visual density, spatial size, and realism. Through a within-subject study, the impact of these factors on the subjective detection of rotational speed was assessed. The results revealed significant differences in perceptual detection thresholds for rotation gains between room and landscape scenes, particularly in the lower bound of rotation gain thresholds.

Virtual reality (VR) is regarded as a useful tool for teleoperation systems and provides operators with immersive visual feedback on the robot and the environment. However, without any haptic feedback or physical constructions, VR-based teleoperation systems normally suffer from poor maneuverability, and operational faults may be caused in some fine movements. In this article, we employ mixed reality (MR), which combines real and virtual worlds, to develop a novel teleoperation system. A new system design and control algorithms are proposed. For the system design, an MR interface is developed based on a virtual environment augmented with real-time data from the task space with the goal of enhancing the operators visual perception. To allow the operator to be freely decoupled from the control loop and offload the operators burden, a new interaction proxy is proposed to control the robot. For the control algorithms, two control modes are introduced to improve the long-distance movements and fine movements of the MR-based teleoperation system. In addition, a set of fuzzy-logic-based methods are proposed to regulate the orientation, position, velocity, and force of the robot to enhance the systems maneuverability and address potential operational faults. A barrier Lyapunov function and a backstepping method are leveraged to design the control laws and simultaneously guarantee the systems stability under state constraints. Experiments conducted using a six-degree-of-freedom robotic arm prove the feasibility of the system. Z8 1

The primary objective of our research is to investigate how immersion can be introduced in the modeling process in such a way that the modeller's performance is enhanced. Examples of modeling systems are CAD applications, industrial product design, architectural design and the realization of virtual worlds to be used in virtual reality applications. To investigate HCI issues about immersive modeling, a framework for a modeling application has been realized. A hybrid 2D/3D user interface is used to interact with the immersive modeling application. 2D interfacing elements such as menus and dialog boxes are presented to the user. Particular interaction scenarios benefit from 3D spatial input and 3D perception. In this paper we elaborate upon human-computer interaction principles and interaction metaphors that play a role when designing an immersive modeling system.

In virtual reality (VR), the virtual scenes are pre-designed by creators. Our physical surroundings, however, comprise significantly varied sizes, layouts, and components. To bridge the gap and further enable natural navigation, recent solutions have been proposed to redirect users or recreate the virtual content. However, they suffer from either interrupted experience or distorted appearances. We present a novel VR-oriented algorithm that automatically restructures a given virtual scene for a user's physical environment. Different from the previous methods, we introduce neither interrupted walking experience nor curved appearances. Instead, a perceptionaware function optimizes our retargeting technique to preserve the fidelity of the virtual scene that appears in VR head-mounted displays. Besides geometric and topological properties, it emphasizes the unique first-person view perceptual factors in VR, such as dynamic visibility and objectwise relationships. We conduct both analytical experiments and subjective studies. The results demonstrate our system's versatile capability and practicability for natural navigation in VR: It reduces the virtual space by 40% without statistical loss of perceptual identicality.

This position paper aims to briefly summarise existing research in vection, teleportation and multisensory stimuli, present our cross-disciplinary research setup and argue towards the importance of discussing haptic feedback design in Virtual Reality (VR) locomotion techniques. In particular, haptic feedback stimulation has been shown to enhance the perception of-self motion when applied to various parts of the body. The recent developments of haptic devices opens the possibilities to explore "whole-body" haptics in virtual environments for locomotion techniques. We argue that crossmodal stimulation frameworks that have been already applied to study self-motion in VR could potentially provide benefits to locomotion studies.

Developments in cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging technologies make it possible to interface directly with the human brain using sensors. Brain activity during the navigation of built space is influenced by user perception and cognition in interaction with visual stimuli. This paper has a fourfold aim: (a) to elucidate the concept of design evaluation for human well-being; (b) to investigate the principal available methodologies for non-invasive human neurological response monitoring; (c) to explain the visual simulator specification used for virtual environments; (d) to review systematically the existing literature that employed empirical methodology for the integration of an immersive visual virtual system with biometric data collection used in architecture design evaluation for pre- or post-occupancy. The paper concludes with considerations for implementing a comprehensive approach that uses biometric response as a method of design evaluation for future research.

This paper deals with the design and the evaluation of human-like robot movements. Three criteria were proposed and evaluated regarding their impact on the human-likeness of the robot movements: The inertia of the base, the inertia of the end-effector and the velocity profile. A specific tool was designed to generate different levels of anthropomorphism according to these three parameters. An industrial use case was designed to compare several robot movements. This use case was implemented with a virtual robot arm in a virtual environment, using virtual reality. A user study was conducted to determine what were the important criteria in the perception of human-like robot movements and what were their correlations with other notions such as safety and preference. The results showed that inertia on the end-effector was of most importance for a movement to be perceived as human-like and nonaggressive, and that those characteristics helped the users feel safer, less stressed and more willing to work with the robot.

Consistent visual and haptic feedback is an important way to improve the user experience when interacting with virtual objects. However, the perception provided in Augmented Reality (AR) mainly comes from visual cues and amorphous tactile feedback. This work explores how to simulate positional vibrotactile feedback (PVF) with multiple vibration motors when colliding with virtual objects in AR. By attaching spatially distributed vibration motors on a physical haptic proxy, users can obtain an augmented collision experience with positional vibration sensations from the contact point with virtual objects. We first developed a prototype system and conducted a user study to optimize the design parameters. Then we investigated the effect of PVF on user performance and experience in a virtual and real object alignment task in the AR environment. We found that this approach could significantly reduce the alignment offset between virtual and physical objects with tolerable task completion time increments. With the PVF cue, participants obtained a more comprehensive perception of the offset direction, more useful information, and a more authentic AR experience. Z8 0

Shopping in Virtual Reality (VR) become popular in recent years since it provides immersive experiences. However, there is insufficient understanding of how efficient and hedonic features in VR stores affect the user experiences concurrently. This work aimed to address this gap by integrating a 2D user interface store and a 3D diegetic store into a VR game for comparative analysis. We explore the effects of efficient and hedonic factors on the users' perceptions and experiences. Results from a within-subject study (N=14) revealed that the diegetic store surpasses the 2D store in offering hedonic features, providing suggestions for VR store designs.

We present a pilot study aiming to explore the use of biometrics sensing technology within a semi-immersive VR environment, where users face architectural spaces which induce them sensations close to fear of heights, claustrophobia, frustration and relief. Electrodermal activity was used to detect users' emotional arousal, while navigating in VR. Navigation conditions and participants' expertise with games were controlled. Main results show that physiological measurement of user's perceptions can discriminate well "positive" from "negative" spaces, providing designers with basic information on people's emotional state when using the buildings they design.

Depth perception as well as egocentric distance estimation can be trained in virtual spaces, although incorrect estimates can occur in these environments. To understand this phenomenon, a virtual environment with 11 changeable factors was created. Egocentric distance estimation skills of 239 participants were assessed with it in the range [25 cm, 160 cm]. One hundred fifty-seven people used a desktop display and seventy-two the Gear VR. According to the results, these investigated factors can have various effects combined with the two display devices on distance estimation and its time. Overall, desktop display users are more likely to accurately estimate or overestimate distances, and significant overestimations occur at 130 and 160 cm. With the Gear VR, distances in the range [40 cm, 130 cm] are significantly underestimated, while at 25 cm, they are significantly overestimated. Estimation times are significantly decreased with the Gear VR. When developing future virtual environments that require depth perception skills, developers should take these results into account.

This work addresses the challenges of creating usable and personalized conversational interfaces for broad, yet applicable, domains that require user engagement and learning, such as museum chatbots. Whether the chatbots are standalone or coupled with virtual agents or real-life robots, the functional requirements for interaction that targets specific learning aspects would be expected to be more or less similar. This work reports on experimental semantics-driven conversational interface design for chatbots in museum settings, targeting visitors to converse about exhibits and learn information about their style, the artists, the era, and other aspects related to them. Depending on the semantics (presentation, learning, exploration), chatbot scenarios were designed and evaluated by participants in a formative evaluation. The evaluation show that user requirement perception manifests in expectations on the semantic level, instead of just the technical level. The results between the scenarios are compared to see how the semantics considered for the design transferred to the implementation and to the user perception.

Simulated reality encompasses virtual, augmented, and mixed realities-each characterized by different degrees of truthfulness in the visual perception: "all false," "coexistence of true and false," and "difficult distinction between true and false," respectively. In all these technologies, however, the temperature rendering of virtual objects is still an unsolved problem. Undoubtedly, the lack of thermal tactile functions substantially reduces the quality of the user's real-experience perception. To address this challenge, we propose theoretically and realize experimentally a technological platform for the in situ simulation of thermal reality. To this purpose, we design a thermal metadevice consisting of a reconfigurable array of radiating units, capable of generating the thermal image of any virtual object, and thus rendering it in situ together with its thermal signature. This is a substantial technological advance, which opens up new possibilities for simulated reality and its applications to human activities.

Recent advances in immersive technologies such as Augmented Reality (AR) provide new opportunities to explore, analyze and present data through Immersive Analytics (IA). This study presents a thorough overview of current research in immersive AR and further proposes a preliminary model for design of immersive AR applications. The goal is to present data in AR settings where users can rely on familiar perceptions to draw in-depth conclusions on the data. This will be achieved by developing a tangible AR system for information visualization in future. The results obtained from this study will help researchers and designers in the field of Information Visualization, immersive Analytics, Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), HCI, and Natural User Interfaces (NUI).

Previous work hypothesized that for Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) displays a mismatch between disparities and optical focus cues, known as the vergence and accommodation conflict (VAC), affects depth perception and thus limits user performance in 3D selection tasks within arm's reach (peri-personal space). To investigate this question, we built a multifocal stereo display, which can eliminate the influence of the VAC for pointing within the investigated distances. In a user study, participants performed a virtual hand 3D selection task with targets arranged laterally or along the line of sight, with and without a change in visual depth, in display conditions with and without the VAC. Our results show that the VAC influences 3D selection performance in common VR and AR stereo displays and that multifocal displays have a positive effect on 3D selection performance with a virtual hand.

The Mixed Reality MIDI Keyboard is a prototype designed to augment virtual reality experiences through the inclusion of a physical interface which aligns the user's senses with the virtual environment. It also serves as a platform on which the uses of virtual reality in music interaction and art installations can be experimented with. The main problem is that of synchronizing the real and virtual environments in a convincing way that makes the user feel more connected to the experience. To accomplish this a system of devices including an HTC Vive, Leap Motion hand tracker, and MIDI Keyboard are used together to produce a convincing mixed reality instrument that aligns with the user's visual, tactile and proprioceptive senses. The system is being developed as both a mixed reality musical instrument for use with common digital audio workstations, and as an installation piece which allows users to explore the nature of perception which this virtual reality system itself takes advantage of.

Virtual reality (VR) technology provides immersive and interactive user experiences in office layout design. However, the mechanism of how VR impacts human perception in layout selections and how such mechanism differs from the traditional rendering-based exhibition remain unclear. Hence, this research proposes an experience-based full-scale immersive VR-based approach and investigates its quantitative effectiveness when conducting user-centered office layout design and evaluation. Comparative experiments (N = 57) with three office designs are conducted, where subjective surveys and objective Stroop tests are utilized to statistically analyze (1) the quantitative difference in user layout satisfaction between using VR and traditional approaches in terms of psychological perceptions and environmental design features, and (2) the consistency between the layout perceptions using VR and the underlying design principles. The results reveal that the influence of VR varies from different design indicators. The significant difference in the satisfaction variation does not exist in the psychological perceptions (i.e., privacy, communication, and concentration) but does exist in the environmental design features (i.e., workspace enclosure, storage, rearrangement), probably because VR can help the end-users visualize the distinct characteristics of office layouts and further rectify their cognition when experiencing daily-life scenarios. In addition, the effectiveness of the VR approach is verified, where the layout perceptions are mostly in line with the design principles. The findings of this research are expected to extend the existing knowledge of VR-based office design and evaluation by providing quantitative evidence and analytical insight into human behaviors in user-centered layout evaluation.

As virtual reality becomes more and more mainstream, the role of affordances in virtual environments becomes an important question. The goal of this study is to explicate users' motivational affordances and examine how they influence the acceptance of a virtual reality learning environment (VLE). It examines how motivational affordances in an educational virtual reality (VR) system affect user experience to track and achieve goals for users. A multimixed approach was used by combining qualitative methods and a quantitative survey. First, a critical incident technique was used to explore a range of affordance factors related to VLE. Second, based on the affordance factors identified from the qualitative methods, a survey was conducted to examine the effects of affordance on user cognitive processes and the influence of affordance on the learning process. The results of the user model confirmed the heuristic role of presence and immersion affordance regarding their underlying link to educational affordances, such as empathy and embodied cognition. The findings imply the embodied cognition process of VLE in which technological qualities are shaped by users' perception and context. The results establish a foundation for VR technologies through a heuristic assessment tool from a user-embodied cognitive process. They confirm the validity and utility of applying affordances to the design of VR as a useful concept and prove that the optimum mix of affordances is crucial to the success of VR design. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

A virtual embodiment can benefit conversational agents, but it is unclear how their personalities and non-verbal behavior influence the User Experience and Social Presence in Augmented Reality (AR). We asked 30 users to converse with a virtual assistant who gives recommendations about city activities. The participants interacted with two different personalities: Sammy, a cheerful blue mouse, and Olive, a serious green human-like agent. Each was presented with two body languages - happy/friendly and annoyed/unfriendly. We conclude how agent representation and humor affect User Experience aspects, and that body language is significant in the evaluation and perception of the AR agent.

As virtual reality technology evolves, avatars play a crucial role in user representation, yet options for gender-diverse individuals remain limited. The goal of this research was to develop 14 racially diverse androgynous avatars using the design guidelines recommended in prior work. However, a perceptual experiment involving 68 participants revealed unexpected results, as most avatars were perceived as predominantly masculine. Additionally, our results yielded discrepancies in perceived gender across different racial identities, as the same design process resulted in widely varying perceptions. Despite these challenges, our research highlights the importance of continued exploration to improve the creation of inclusive avatars.

The tamarind forest is a virtual reality (VR) installation that explores shifts of perception through a somatic experience in a virtual space. As part of a larger show (kimosphere no.4) that explored immersion and an entwinement of real and virtual spaces, The Tamarind forest experiments with augmented virtuality and invites the audience to pay attention to their physical body while taking a journey through a virtual forest. This paper describes the piece, the technology and the design process as well as the main takeaways and reflections.

Haptic feedback can increase the realism when interacting with virtual objects in a virtual environment. In this study, a natural user interface for providing realistic tactile feedback for object surface textures was developed. Users can wear the interface device in a virtual environment and naturally interact with virtual objects as they interact with physical objects in the physical environment to perceive object surface texture. A recording device composed of an accelerometer and a force sensor was designed to record the surface texture of an object. A simulation device composed of an accelerometer, a force sensor, and a piezo actuator was designed to reproduce the tactile feedback. A neural network was used to train an approximate function to transform the recorded data to simulation data. User test shows that users can perceive the simulated surface texture with at least 70% of correct rate.

In this paper, we present a virtual audience simulation system for Virtual Reality (VR). The system implements an audience perception model controlling the nonverbal behaviors of virtual spectators, such as facial expressions or postures. Groups of virtual spectators are animated by a set of nonverbal behavior rules representing a particular audience attitude (e.g., indifferent or enthusiastic). Each rule specifies a nonverbal behavior category: posture, head movement, facial expression and gaze direction as well as three parameters: type, frequency and proportion. In a first user-study, we asked participants to pretend to be a speaker in VR and then create sets of nonverbal behaviour parameters to simulate different attitudes. Participants manipulated the nonverbal behaviours of single virtual spectator to match a specific levels of engagement and opinion toward them. In a second user-study, we used these parameters to design different types of virtual audiences with our nonverbal behavior rules and evaluated their perceptions. Our results demonstrate our system's ability to create virtual audiences with three types of different perceived attitudes: indifferent, critical, enthusiastic. The analysis of the results also lead to a set of recommendations and guidelines regarding attitudes and expressions for future design of audiences for VR therapy and training applications.

This paper discusses an approach to augmented virtual reality (AVR) and 360-degree spatial visualization. The approach involves locating stereoscopic three-dimensional virtual objects into a real off-site panorama, supporting spatial remodel design decision-making through realistic comparisons. Previous studies have shown that in the design process, end-user engagement promotes the quality and satisfaction of design solutions. Immersive media such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) have increasingly been used as communication tools for user engagement in design, as they provide intuitive and realistic user experiences, particularly in comparing design plans. However, the dichotomous affordance of current VR and AR devices is limited in satisfying both the sense of realism and immersion that are essential for user engagement. To overcome this shortcoming, we propose an AVR-based design visualization approach that integrates the advantages of both media technologies to provide a high sense of realism and immersion off-site, responding to location and environmental stimuli, such as lighting, material, and other factors. To achieve this goal, we used 360-degree panorama data of the target space as a design visualization background, with content immersion experienced through VR hardware. Additionally, we developed software to demonstrate the actual use of the AVR-based approach, and various visualization-purposed file formats can be exported automatically using this software. The software supports the authoring of 360-degree spatial visualization videos for realistic design comparisons, which can be easily accessed by end-users using a head-mounted display or smartphone, even in real-time. We performed a demonstration of this approach using an actual remodel design project for the university library lobby, and this paper shows the usability and applicability of the AVR-based approach for user engagement.

Human users can obtain information about the physical properties of an object through direct manipulation with one or two hands. Object manipulation of virtual objects using force feedback haptic interfaces is very challenging due to current technological constrains that often affect the information obtained by the user. Here, we describe the Master Finger 2 (MF2), a force feedback device which allows manipulation of one or more objects with one or two hands. We use experimental data to evaluate the performance of MF2 based on its capability to simulate effectively the weight of virtual objects. The results and implications for system design are discussed.

Our work investigates the influence of self-related cues in the design of virtual humans on body perception in virtual reality. In a $2\times 2$ mixed design, 64 participants faced photorealistic virtual humans either as a motion-synchronized embodied avatar or as an autonomous moving agent, appearing subsequently with a personalized and generic texture. Our results unveil that self-related cues through embodiment and personalization yield an individual and complemented increase in participants' sense of embodiment and self-identification towards the virtual human. Different body weight modification and estimation tasks further showed an impact of both factors on participants' body weight perception. Additional analyses revealed that the participant's body mass index predicted body weight estimations in all conditions and that participants' self-esteem and body shape concerns correlated with different body weight perception results. Hence, we have demonstrated the occurrence of double standards through induced self-related cues in virtual human perception, especially through embodiment. Z8 0

Augmented reality headsets in use today have a large area in which the real world can be seen, but virtual content cannot be displayed. Users perceptions of content in this area is not well understood. This work studies participants perception of a virtual character in this area by grounding this question in relevant theories of perception and performing a study using both behavioral and self-report measures. We find that virtual characters within the augmented periphery receive lower social presence scores, but we do notfind a difference in task performance. These findings inform application design and encourage future work in theories of AR perception and perception of virtual humans.

Realistic interactions with real objects (e.g., animals, toys, robots) in an augmented reality (AR) environment enhances the user experience. The common AR apps on the market achieve realistic interactions by superimposing pre-modeled virtual proxies on the real objects in the AR environment. This way user perceives the interaction with virtual proxies as interaction with real objects. However, catering to environment change, shape deformation, and view update is not a trivial task. Our proposed method uses the dynamic silhouette of a real object to enable realistic interactions. Our approach is practical, lightweight, and requires no additional hardware besides the device camera. For a case study, we designed a mobile AR application to interact with real animal dolls. Our scenario included a virtual human performing four types of realistic interactions. Results demonstrated our method's stability that does not require pre-modeled virtual proxies in case of shape deformation and view update. We also conducted a pilot study using our approach and reported significant improvements in user perception of spatial awareness and presence for realistic interactions with a virtual human.

Human activities are the foundation of the social processes that drive the urban system. The emergence of information technology provides opportunities to extend the transformation of the physical city into the digital city or virtual city. As navigation in virtual environments is evidently difficult and as many virtual worlds have been designed to be used by untrained users that explore the environment, navigation supports are critically needed. Furthermore, users or participants within the digital cities are often foreign to the environment without navigational aids. Therefore, this paper is aimed to build an agent-based system in a virtual environment to study user behaviors and interactions. The study aims to indirectly collect information about the user's desires in order to build a model of user preference and produce simulative scenarios that more closely match it.

This poster presents an initial study about people experience with advertising messages in Virtual Reality (VR) that simulates the urban space. Besides looking to the plastic and textual factors perceived by the users in the Virtual Environment (VE), this work also reflects about effects of immersion provided by different technological devices and its possible influences in the advertising message reception process-a head-mounted display (Oculus Rift DK2), a cavern automatic virtual environment (CAVE) and a desktop monitor (PC). To carry this empirical experiment, a 3D scenario that simulates a real city urban space was created and several advertising image formats were inserted on its landscape. User navigation through the urban space was designed in a first-person perspective. In short, we intend to accomplish two objectives: a) to identify which factors lead people to pay attention to adverting in immersive VE; b) to verify the immersion effects produced by different VR interfaces in the perception of advertising.

The emotional response a person has to a living space is predominantly affected by light, color and texture as space-making elements. In order to verify whether this phenomenon could be replicated in a simulated environment, we conducted a user study in a six-sided projected immersive display that utilized equivalent design attributes of brightness, color and texture in order to assess to which extent the emotional response in a simulated environment is affected by the same parameters affecting real environments. Since emotional response depends upon the context, we evaluated the emotional responses of two groups of users: inactive (passive) and active (performing a typical daily activity). The results from the perceptual study generated data from which design principles for a virtual living space are articulated. Such a space, as an alternative to expensive built dwellings, could potentially support new, minimalist lifestyles of occupants, defined as the neo-nomads, aligned with their work experience in the digital domain through the generation of emotional experiences of spaces. Data from the experiments confirmed the hypothesis that perceivable emotional aspects of real-world spaces could be successfully generated through simulation of design attributes in the virtual space. The subjective response to the virtual space was consistent with corresponding responses from real-world color and brightness emotional perception. Our data could serve the virtual reality (VR) community in its attempt to conceive of further applications of virtual spaces for well-defined activities.

An important characteristic of virtual assembly is interaction. Traditional direct manipulation in virtual assembly relies on dynamic collision detection, which is very time-consuming and even impossible in desktop virtual assembly environment. Feature-matching is a critical process in harmonious virtual assembly, and is the premise of assembly constraint sensing. This paper puts forward an active object-based feature-matching perception mechanism and a feature-matching interactive computing process, both of which make the direct manipulation in virtual assembly break away from collision detection. They also help to enhance virtual environment understandability of user intention and promote interaction performance. Experimental results show that this perception mechanism can ensure that users achieve real-time direct manipulation in desktop virtual environment.

Although vision is usually considered to be the most important of the five senses, sound design of an inferior quality may still heavily influence a user's feeling of presence in virtual reality. In this study, a 3D sound system for virtual reality based on ambisonics was built to explore the influence of audio upon users' feeling of presence in a virtual reality environment. The research participants wore an HTC Vive device with a two-channel headset to perceive the virtual reality. They were asked to identify the location and the origin of a detected sound in terms of direction and distance and to perceive the size of a space through hearing. For comparison, visual hints were provided to determine whether they affect the participants' audio perception. The results of the experiment are analyzed to provide practical suggestions on interactive sound system design for virtual reality games or training systems in scenarios where hearing is crucial.

We investigated how the properties of interactive virtual reality systems affect user behavior in full-body embodied interactions. Our experiment compared four interactive virtual reality systems using different display types (CAVE vs. HMD) and modes of locomotion (walking vs. joystick). Participants performed a perceptual-motor coordination task, in which they had to choose among a series of opportunities to pass through a gate that cycled open and closed and then board a moving train. Mode of locomotion, but not type of display, affected how participants chose opportunities for action. Both mode of locomotion and display affected performance when participants acted on their choices. We conclude that technological properties of virtual reality system (both display and mode of locomotion) significantly affected opportunities for action available in the environment (affordances) and discuss implications for design and practical applications of immersive interactive systems.

A primary affordance of virtual reality (VR) headsets is to give the user spatial presence or the illusion of being in the virtual environment. Although considerable research connects VR to spatial presence, spatial awareness, and spatial ability, little is known about how users develop spatial presence in VR learning environments. This study addresses that gap by exploring spatial presence experience construction in a VR educational game and investigating whether users' knowledge, game experience, and VR experience impact the establishment of spatial presence. In this study, 56 high school students played an immersive 3D VR cell biology game where players search for clues within a virtual cell to diagnose the cell. Findings suggest that players' perceptions of spatial presence are linked to how they allocate their attention during the game, their level of interest in cellular biology, and their visual-spatial acuity, but are not linked to their game experience, VR experience, or prior knowledge of the content area. These results indicate that well-scaffolded, engaging virtual environments can foster spatial presence among users, regardless of prior knowledge or experience, and gives practitioners clues about how to design VR learning environments.

This paper describes the development of a computational tool that simulates the impact of designed environments on the behavior of the people who will occupy them once they are built. The computational tool consists of an agent-based virtual user (VUser) model and a usability-based building model. The virtual users are modeled as autonomous agents, which emulate the appearance, perception, social traits, and physical behavior of real users. The building model usability properties are perceived and interpreted by the virtual users, who can adjust their behavior to conform to the built environment. By observing and analyzing the virtual users' behavior architects can evaluate the effects of their designed environments in terms of human behavior.

The employment of Virtual Reality (VR) in medical rehabilitation has been broadened to incorporate visual and tactile feedback, while how people use tangible objects to induce better perceptions in VR remains unexplored. We investigated how partial visuotactile feedback influences users' embodiment and proposed a design idea named TacPoint (a red point mark) that connects to the physical and virtual worlds. The results reported that higher embodiment illusions could be induced in the TacPoint session than in others without feedback during virtual interactions. It is proposed that TacPoint could help people induce the embodiment easily to increase their positive experience in VR rehabilitation training.

Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies have advanced rapidly in recent years. These cutting-edge technologies provide dermatology researchers, educators, proceduralists, and patients with op-portunities in new scientific horizons. VR is a technology that facilitates immersive human experiences allowing users to connect with various simulated environments through natural head and hand movements, whereas AR supplements a user's perception of their real environment with virtual elements. Despite tech-nological advancements, there is limited literature on the methodological steps for conducting rigorous VR and AR research in dermatology. Effective storyboarding, user-driven design, and interdisciplinary teamwork play central role in ensuring that VR/AR applications meet the specific needs of dermatology clinical and research teams. We present a step-by-step approach for their design, team composition, and evaluation in dermatology research, medical education, procedures, and habit formation strategies. We also discuss current VR and AR dermatology applications and the importance of ethical and safety considerations in deploying this new technology.

The popular perception for the holy grail of virtual reality is an environment that allows users to interact with an artificial environment exactly like they would interact with the real world. This popular metaphor creates both unreasonable expectations and channels effort improperly. This paper introduces a virtual sculpting system that was initially designed to mimic real world sculpting gestures but instead became an exercise in deciding which aspects of creating virtual worlds that mimic physical worlds may hinder the usefulness of such systems.

Augmented reality (AR) has the potential to become an effective assistive technology for emergencies in the future. However, raw AR content can confuse users' visual perception and occlude information in the physical world. In this research, we propose X-Board, an X-ray visualization-based AR assistant for perception in indoor environments. In accordance with its design principles, X-Board provides visual-spatial cues by means of a grid mesh corresponding to the occluding surface in front of the target object. Meanwhile, the X-Board interacts with the physical world in real time, improving the coherence between the virtual and real worlds. To ensure the appropriate allocation of the user's visual resources, the user's visual intention is recognized based on gaze data to realize an adaptive display feature. The results of the user evaluation show that X-Board can effectively improve the accuracy and speed of the perception and reduce the cognitive load on users; thus, the usability of X-Board is confirmed. With X-Board, users could effectively perceive the spatial positions of their comrades in an indoor occluded environment in our simulated perception scenario.

Augmented reality (AR) allows us to wear virtual displays that are registered to our bodies and devices. Such virtually extendable displays, or AR extended displays (AREDs), provide personal display space and are free from physical restrictions. Existing work has explored the new design space to improve user experience and efficiency. Contrary to this direction, we focus on the weight that the user perceives from AREDs, even though they are virtual and have no physical weight. Our user study results show evidence that AREDs can be a source of pseudo-weight, in addition to that of a handheld physical display device. We also systematically evaluate the perceived weight changes depending on the layout and delay in the visualization system. These findings are similar to those in existing pseudo-haptics research. However, we found such behavior in pseudo-weight for a real device and virtual visual stimuli in the air, which differentiates our research from previous work.

Mixed reality systems integrate virtual reality with real-world perception and cognition to offer enhanced interaction possibilities with the environment. Our aim is to demonstrate that mixed reality technologies strongly affect our aesthetic sense and mental models. So, in designing such technologies, we need to incorporate perspectives from different disciplines. We present different approaches and implementations of cognitive enhancement and cognitive technologies, consider some practical applications of mixed reality systems and discuss how they impact the user perception, body image and aesthetic sense.

It is well-documented that natural lighting conditions and real-world backgrounds affect the usability of optical see-through augmented reality (AR) displays in outdoor environments. In many cases, outdoor environmental conditions can dramatically alter users' color perception of user interface elements, by for example, washing out text or icon colors. As a result, users' semantic interpretation of interface elements can be compromised, rendering interface designs useless or counter-productive - an especially critical problem in application domains where color encoding is critical, such as military or medical visualization. In this paper, we present our experiences designing and constructing an optical AR testbed that emulates outdoor lighting conditions and allows us to measure the combined color of real-world backgrounds and virtual colors as projected through an optical see-through display. We present a formalization of color blending in AR, which supports further research on perceived color in AR displays. We describe an engineering study where we measure the color of light that reaches an optical see-through display user's eye under systematically varied virtual and real-world conditions. Our results further quantify the effect of lighting and background color on the color of virtual graphics, and specifically quantify how virtual colors change based on different real-world backgrounds.

This paper describes the design and implementation of a system for rendering virtual shape through vision, haptic and sound. The system consists of a haptic strip that physically renders virtual curves. A flexible capacitive touch sensor (FCTS) is integrated with the haptic strip, and allows the system to track the position of the user's fingers on the strip. According to the position, the system renders curve properties such as curve shape, inflexion points and curvature through sound metaphors. The goal of this sonification approach is to strengthen the user's understanding of the shape of a virtual prototype, and to inform the user about geometrical attributes that could otherwise remain unseen. Such unseen attributes may either be a result of limitations in the visual and haptic display hardware or a result of limitations in human perception.

Researchers have come up with many visual cues that can guide Virtual (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) users to out of view objects. The paper provides a classification of cues and tasks and visual model to describe and analyse cues to support their design.

Interacting with virtual agents in immersive settings is becoming increasingly common thanks to the proliferation of dedicated media devices, such as consumer-grade virtual and augmented reality headsets. These technologies offer many advantages, e.g., in terms of presence and engagement, and can impact user behavior and attitudes toward virtual agents. Recognizing and understanding these effects is essential, especially in critical contexts involving the delegation of high-stake decisions to virtual agents. This article presents two experiments that explore users' delegatory behavior toward virtual agents experienced via different media devices that vary in their technological immersion, i.e., a device's technical capacity to deliver immersive experiences. The experiments' results suggest that technological immersion is not a significant factor in users' delegation decisions. Thus, for virtual agents designed to carry out critical tasks, developers may focus on other relevant factors, such as agents' trustworthiness or performance.

Understanding user perceptions of interacting with the virtual world is one of the research focuses in recent years, given the rapid proliferation of virtual reality (VR) and driven to establish the metaverse. Users can generate a familiar connection between their bodies and the virtual world by being embodied in virtual hands, and hand representations can induce users' embodiment in VR. The sense of embodiment represents the cognitive awareness of one's manifestation and includes three subcomponents: the sense of body ownership, agency and self-location. There is insufficient evidence in the literature about the effects of hand designs on the embodiment, especially based on studying its three subcomponents. This study investigates how virtual hand designs with five realism levels influence the three subcomponents of embodiment in VR. This research employs a self-report questionnaire commonly used in the literature to assess embodiment and evaluates agency and self-location by introducing implicit methods (intentional binding and proprioceptive measurement) derived from psychology. Besides, the objective data of eye tracking is used to explore the connection between embodiment and hand designs, and classifying participants' eye tracking data to help analyze the link between embodiment and user attention. Overall, this research makes a major contribution through a systematic exploration of users' embodied experience in VR and offers important evidence of the effects of virtual hand designs on body ownership, agency, and self-location, respectively. In addition, this study provides a valuable reference for further investigation of embodiment through implicit and objective methods, and practical design recommendations for virtual hand design in VR applications.

Virtual Reality (VR) enables the low-cost production of realistic prototypes of buildings at early stages of architectural projects. Such prototypes may be used to gather the experiences of future users and iterate early on in the design. However, it is essential to evaluate whether what is experienced within such VR prototypes corresponds to what will be experienced in reality. Here, we use an innovative method to compare the experiences of patients in a real building and in a virtual environment that plays the role of a prototype that could have been created by architects during the design phase. We first designed and implemented a VR environment replicating an existing ambulatory pathway. Then, we used micro-phenomenological interviews to collect the experiences of real patients in the VR environment (n=8), along with VR traces and first-person point of view videos, and in the real ambulatory pathway (n=8). We modeled and normalized the experiences, and compared them systematically. Results suggest that patients live comparable experiences along various experiential dimensions such as thought, emotion, sensation, social and sensory perceptions, and that VR prototypes may be adequate to assess issues with architectural design. This work opens unique perspectives towards involving patients in User-Centered Design in architecture, though challenges lie ahead in how to design VR prototypes from early blueprints of architects. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) technology strives to enable a highly immersive experience for the user by including a wide variety of modalities (e.g. visuals, haptics). Current VR hardware however lacks a sufficient way of communicating the perception of weight of an object, resulting in scenarios where users can not distinguish between lifting a bowling ball or a feather. We propose a solely software based approach of simulating weight in VR by deliberately using perceivable tracking offsets. These tracking offsets nudge users to lift their ann higher and result in a visual and haptic perception of weight. We conducted two user studies showing that participants intuitively associated them with the sensation of weight and accept them as part of the virtual world. We further show that compared to no weight simulation, our approach led to significantly higher levels of presence, immersion and enjoyment. Finally, we report perceptional thresholds and offset boundaries as design guidelines for practitioners.

An important step in implementing geospatial digital twins is to enhance the expressiveness of virtual geographical scenes for the physical world. However, the existing virtual geographical scenes cannot quickly express the dynamically changing geographic environment for remote users due to the inefficient handling of modeling processes, user perception, and remote sharing. The research analysed the concept and characteristics of geospatial digital twins, and constructed the virtual geographical scene ontology, based on which we developed geographical spatiotemporal semantic rules and designed a dynamic annotation algorithm to enhance the representation of virtual geographical scenes. Finally, we investigated a real-time transmission method of panoramic video based on 5 G and used immersive virtual reality (IVR) to realize the user experience of remote immersion in geographical scenes. We selected a specific geographic environment containing multiple typical geographic entities to develop three prototype systems for experimental analyses. The results showed that the proposed method enabled users to view the virtual geographical scene on a VR device. The average latency for this process was 14.72 seconds. Compared with the virtual geographical scenes constructed by traditional methods, the experiments showed the proposed method advantageous in comprehensiveness, timeliness, and photorealism and abilities to enhance the user's geographical scene perception.

Featured Application Authors are encouraged to provide a concise description of the specific application or a potential application of the work. This section is not mandatory. Chemistry experiments are an important part of chemistry learning, and the development and application of virtual experiments have greatly enriched experimental teaching. However, in the existing virtual experiments, there are problems such as low human-computer interaction efficiency, poor user sense of reality and operation, and a boring experimental process. Therefore, this paper designs a multimodal perception gameplay virtual and real fusion intelligence laboratory (GVRFL). GVRFL uses virtual and real fusion methods to interactively complete chemical experiments, which greatly improves the user's sense of reality and operation. This method proposes a multimodal intention active understanding algorithm to improve the efficiency of human-computer interaction and user experience and proposes a novel game-based virtual-real fusion intelligent experimental mode that adds gameplay to the process of virtual-real fusion experiments. The experimental results show that this method improves the efficiency of human-computer interaction and reduces the user's operating load. At the same time, the interaction between the real experimental equipment and the virtual experimental scene greatly improves the user's sense of reality and operation. The introduction of game elements into the process of virtual and real fusion experiments stimulates students' interest in and enthusiasm for learning.

This paper presents a study of haptic perception of virtual stiffness and the influence of visual feedback in virtual reality. In this study, a novel and lightweight hap tic glove (ExoTen-Glove) based on Twisted String Actuation (TSA) system is presented and evaluated. This system has two independent TSA modules with integrated force sensors and small-size DC motors. ExoTen-Glove provides force feedback to the users during the execution of grasping virtual objects. The overall design, the controller and the preliminary experimental evaluation of the ExoTen-Glove have been shown in this paper. Different experiments have been performed in virtual reality environment using HTC VINT headset with 2 degrees of freedom grasping tasks, squeezing a pair of virtual springs with the participant's thumb and index fingers. The aim of this study is to illustrate the benefit of using ExoTen-Glove to distinguish stiffness of a pair of virtual springs and the role of the visual feedback. The results show that the users use not only haptic cues but also use visual cues in detecting spring stiffness difference.

Previous research has examined student preferences for specific video styles in asynchronous and synchronous courses and social presence in online virtual courses. However, only some works have examined the social presence and user experience in synchronous distance learning courses delivered in an immersive or augmented reality classroom. This case study, using a sample of 198 students examines the design of video style used in a synchronous distance learning course mediated by an immersive virtual classroom (IVC) on the professor's social presence perceived by students, including other factors such as usability, communication, and reliability. The results showed that the immersive video style of the IVC used in streaming a synchronous remote classroom strongly and reciprocally conditioned students' perceptions of the professor's social presence. The results also established that the social presence in the IVC, enhanced by a video style that allows the communication of non-verbal immediacy responses, has an important influence on the perception of reliability and communication, while usability has a significant positive influence on the perception of communication, video style design and social presence. On the other hand, the professors' experience using IVC suggests that the visual design provides a sense of immersion but that there is still a need to improve the instructor-student interaction in its audio aspect.

Large displays are one of the core components of visualizing large-scale data sets, allowing users to render a larger amount of information and present it in the corresponding context. However, these displays still have many disadvantages, like the high costs that increase exponentially with display size and the immobility of the display setups. In this paper, we introduce a virtual large screen that is designed as an alternative to physical large displays. It is implemented with the help of the Oculus Rift head mounted display (HMD). Users wearing the virtual glasses are able to see and explore a virtual screen and make use of its size advantages without the cost and location restrictions of the physical counterpart. A preliminary evaluation of our system suggests that the users' perception and cognitive abilities are similar for both working on large physical displays and our large virtual screens.

This paper presents a schematic eye model designed for use by virtual environments researchers and practitioners. This model, based on a combination of several ophthalmic models, attempts to very closely approximate a user's optical centers and intraocular separation using as little as a single measurement of pupillary distance (PD). Typically, these parameters are loosely approximated based on the PD of the user while converged to some known distance. However, this may not be sufficient for users to accurately perform spatially sensitive tasks in the near field. We investigate this possibility by comparing the impact of several common PD-based models and our schematic eye model on users' ability to accurately match real and virtual targets in depth. This was done using a specially designed display and robotic positioning apparatus that allowed sub-millimeter measurement of target positions and user responses. We found that the schematic eye model resulted in significantly improved real to virtual matches with average accuracy, in some cases, well under 1mm. We also present a novel, low-cost method of accurately measuring PD using an off-the-shelf trial frame and pinhole filters. We validated this method by comparing its measurements against those taken using an ophthalmic autorefractor. Significant differences were not found between the two methods.

Haptic perception refers to the human ability to perceive spatial properties through tactile and haptic sensations. Humans have an uncanny ability to analyze objects based only on sparse information from haptic stimuli. Contextual clues about material of an object, its overall shape, size and weight configurations perceived by individuals, lead to recognition of an object and its spatial features. In this paper, we present strategies and algorithms to model context in haptic applications that allow user to explore objects in virtual reality/augmented reality, haptically. Our methodology is based on modeling user's cognitive and motor strategy of haptic exploration. Additionally we also model physiological arrangement of tactile sensors in the human hand. These models provide the context to adapt haptic displays to a user's style of haptic perception and exploration and the present state of the user's exploration. We designed a tactile cueing paradigm to test the validity of the contextual models. Initial results show improvement in accuracy and efficiency of haptic perception when compared to the conventional approaches that do not model context in haptic rendering.

Intelligent Reality refers to the fusion of integrated technological innovations to develop complex computing systems aiming to blend the real with digital worlds and enable humans and machines to seamlessly work together leveraging each other's strengths. This paper presents the results of a study evaluating the user experience of visiting an Intelligent Reality virtual museum prototype in terms of presence, technology acceptance, and environment perceptions, as a small-scale CyberPhysical-Social Eco-System proof of concept. A virtual reality (VR) system was designed, and a real robot was placed in a technology museum to foster cyber-physical synchronisation, for users to visit and navigate in the environment. The study results revealed high degree of presence achieved by users in the VR world, with positive acceptance of technology and environment evaluation. Most importantly, the results highlighted the importance of presence in such systems and how it relates to acceptance and to the overall users' perception of a VR world.

Shared virtual environments (VEs) are challenged conveying and triggering users' feelings of social presence. Traces of use are implicit evidence of prior interactions that support social awareness in the real environment (RE). However, they have not been explored in VEs so far. We investigate the traces' effect on users' perception of asynchronous social presences in a within-subject study (N=26) by comparing the users' experience with and without traces. The traces significantly increased the feeling of social presence. We contribute an initial exploration of the traces of use concept in VE to design shared social spaces for long-term use.

With the arrival of the digital era and the national promotion of non-heritage culture, traditional handicraft techniques are gradually becoming known to the public, and the dyeing and weaving crafts of the Tang Dynasty are famous for their unique technical standard and artistic value. However, due to the complexity and scarcity of the craft, there are certain difficulties in the traditional way of learning and preservation, and the development of immersive virtual reality technology provides an opportunity for the public to recognize and understand the Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft. The greatest academic contribution of this paper is to reproduce and protect the traditional history and culture of China, to provide innovative interaction design concepts and to promote the application of virtual reality technology in the field of cultural heritage. First of all, through the methods of literature review and field study, this paper conducts an in-depth research on the dyeing and weaving craft of the Tang Dynasty, including its historical background, technical characteristics and artistic value, which is of great significance for the protection and education of history and culture. Through immersive virtual reality technology, the details and processes of Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft can be reproduced. Through clear visual effects and dynamic interactive experience, users can feel the unique charm of Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft immersively. This immersive experience can better convey the artistic value and aesthetic emotion in history and culture to users, and inspire their interest in traditional culture and awareness of protection. In addition, immersive virtual reality interaction design can also provide a new way for the promotion and dissemination of Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft. Virtual reality technology can present the Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft globally, so that more people can understand and appreciate the uniqueness of our traditional culture. Through channels such as the Internet and mobile terminals, users can participate in the immersive virtual reality experience anytime, anywhere, so that the Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft can enter thousands of households, and make positive contributions to the protection and education of China's history and culture. Secondly, this study proposes a new interaction design concept through in-depth exploration of immersive virtual reality technology and interaction design. This concept emphasizes the user's subjective experience and emotional perception in the virtual environment, thus providing a new way to enhance the user's sense of participation and immersion. The concept focuses on the interaction and empathy between the user and the virtual environment, and enhances the user's understanding and perception of history and culture by creating empathy and emotional resonance. First, designers can create an immersive experience through multi-sensory interaction design. Using virtual reality technology, it is possible to simulate the craft scenes, environmental sounds, and even smells and tactile sensations of the Tang Dynasty, allowing users to immerse themselves in the real atmosphere of Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craftsmanship. Through tactile feedback and stereo sound effects, users can personally experience the texture and sound of the dyeing and weaving process, enhancing the subjective sense of participation and experience. Secondly, designers can try emotion-oriented design to guide users to deeper experience. In the design process, some emotional elements can be incorporated, such as cultural background music and emotionally-intended storylines, to create an emotional connection that makes it easier for users to empathize. Through well-designed plots and characters, create an experience with emotional tension and guidance, triggering users to think about the historical and cultural background and emotional resonance. Third, designers can use social interaction design to promote communication and sharing between users and others. Through virtual reality interactive design, it can provide users with the opportunity to communicate with other users and jointly explore and experience the Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving process. Designers can introduce social interaction elements, such as virtual communities and online cooperation modes, to enable users to communicate and share with other users, and to experience and pass on this historical and cultural heritage together. In conclusion, in the study of immersive virtual reality interaction design for Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft, innovative interaction concepts that emphasize users' subjective experience and emotional perception in virtual environments can be realized through multi-sensory interaction, emotion-oriented design, and social interaction design. Finally, this research is conducive to promoting the application of virtual reality technology in the field of cultural heritage, and its research results not only help to enrich the application field of virtual reality technology, further deepen the understanding of Tang Dynasty dyeing and textile technology and the perfection of simulation technology, but also promote the development of virtual reality technology in the field of cultural heritage. At the same time, virtual reality technology can realize large-scale user interaction and sharing, through the Internet and social media and other channels, so that more people can participate in the Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving craft experience and learning, and can promote cross-border cooperation and cultural exchanges, and promote the interaction and sharing between different regions and cultures. In conclusion, the study of immersive virtual reality interaction design for Tang Dynasty dyeing and weaving crafts can promote the application of virtual reality technology in the field of cultural inheritance, realize the innovative protection and inheritance of traditional crafts by providing immersive experience, enriching the inheritance of traditional culture, promoting the interactive participation and learning experience of users, and promoting the popularization and sharing of cultural inheritance, and at the same time encouraging more people to use this technology to study and spread our traditional history and culture.

In this study, we expand upon recent evidence that the motion of virtual characters affects the proximity of users who are immersed with them in virtual reality (VR). Attractive motions decrease proximity, but no effect of character gender on proximity was found. We designed a similar experiment where users observed walking motions in VR which were displayed on male and female virtual characters. Our results show similar patterns found in previous studies, while some differences related to the model of the character emerged.

Entourage elements are widely used in architectural renderings to provide a sense of scale and bring the drawings to life. We explore the potential of using a photorealistic, three-dimensional, exact-scale model of a known person as an entourage element to ameliorate the classical problem of distance underestimation in immersive virtual environments, for the purposes of enhancing spatial perception accuracy during architectural design reviews.

For sighted users, computer graphics and virtual reality allow them to model and perceive imaginary objects and worlds. However, these approaches are inaccessible to blind and visually impaired (BVI) users, since they primarily rely on visual feedback. To this end, we introduce ShapeSonic, a system designed to convey vivid 3D shape perception using purely audio feedback or sonification. ShapeSonic tracks users' fingertips in 3D and provides real-time sound feedback (sonification). The shape's geometry and sharp features (edges and corners) are expressed as sounds whose volumes modulate according to fingertip distance. ShapeSonic is based on a mass-produced, commodity hardware platform (Oculus Quest). In a study with 15 sighted and 6 BVI users, we demonstrate the value of ShapeSonic in shape landmark localization and recognition. ShapeSonic users were able to quickly and relatively accurately "touch" points on virtual 3D shapes in the air.

We present a systematic review of 458 papers that report on evaluations in mixed and augmented reality (MR/AR) published in ISMAR, CHI, IEEE VR, and UIST over a span of 11 years (2009-2019). Our goal is to provide guidance for future evaluations of MR/AR approaches. To this end, we characterize publications by paper type (e.g., technique, design study), research topic (e.g., tracking, rendering), evaluation scenario (e.g., algorithm performance, user performance), cognitive aspects (e.g., perception, emotion), and the context in which evaluations were conducted (e.g., lab vs. in-thewild). We found a strong coupling of types, topics, and scenarios. We observe two groups: (a) technology-centric performance evaluations of algorithms that focus on improving tracking, displays, reconstruction, rendering, and calibration, and (b) human-centric studies that analyze implications of applications and design, human factors on perception, usability, decision making, emotion, and attention. Amongst the 458 papers, we identified 248 user studies that involved 5,761 participants in total, of whom only 1,619 were identified as female. We identified 43 data collection methods used to analyze 10 cognitive aspects. We found nine objective methods, and eight methods that support qualitative analysis. A majority (216/248) of user studies are conducted in a laboratory setting. Often (138/248), such studies involve participants in a static way. However, we also found a fair number (30/248) of in-the-wild studies that involve participants in a mobile fashion. We consider this paper to be relevant to academia and industry alike in presenting the state-of-the-art and guiding the steps to designing, conducting, and analyzing results of evaluations in MR/AR.

We are witnessing a surge in the popularity and mass-availability of Virtual Reality (VR) technology. Toward enhancing its maturity, current research is focusing on achieving continuous full immersiveness of the VR users during their experiences in Virtual Environments (VEs), as well as on enabling multiuser experiences. In many cases, achieving the full immersiveness requires enabling the users' perception of walking naturally in unbound VEs. Redirected Walking (RDW) algorithms provide a solution to this problem by exploiting the limitations of the human spatial perception. In other words, the RDW algorithms are envisioned to unnoticeably steer the VR users for constraining them within a certain tracking space. Regardless of notable research efforts targeting RDW, there are still not many experimental evaluations of the performance of RDW algorithms, especially in multiuser settings and utilizing contemporary Head-Mounted Devices (HMDs). Toward addressing this issue, we have developed a modular framework that enables straightforward experimentation with single and multiuser RDW in different tracking spaces and for varying VEs. The capabilities of the developed framework were demonstrated by carrying out an extensive experimentation study to capture the performance and noticeability of a contemporary RDW algorithm for a varying number of users in different tracking spaces and VEs. The lessons learned during the study have been conceptualized in a form of a set of RDW design enhancements that can be generically applied to existing RDW algorithms. We show that the proposed enhancements significantly increase the overall performance of RDW and decrease the noticeability of RDW-supported experiences in VEs.

The perception of the size of indoor rooms is traditionally measured with spaciousness ratings or verbal estimations of width and length, but these measures inherently focus on specific aspects of rooms that may not accurately capture a holistic perception of room size. The current study asked users to re-create the size of virtual rooms with a visual matching task by adjusting the dimensions of comparison virtual rooms to match those of a previously viewed virtual room. In addition to estimating room size with this novel room re-creation measure, participants also provided spaciousness ratings and verbal reports of length and width for each room. The results indicate that users accurately estimate relative room size using room re-creation. Room dimensions set in the room re-creation task were more accurate to the programmed dimensions and less variable than verbal reports. The room re-creation measure was positively correlated with spaciousness ratings, indicating that it also captures holistic perception of room size. Thus, the virtual room re-creation task accurately assesses both holistic and dimensional perception of the size of virtual rooms in an informative, quantitative manner. The room re-creation measure exemplifies the ability to use virtual reality as a unique tool for measuring space perception. The current study demonstrates the implementation of the novel room re-creation task and its ability to accurately capture the perception of virtual rooms, which can serve as a foundation for future studies to assess the ability of virtual room re-creation to capture the perception of real-world rooms. This new measure of room size perception is relevant to theoretical space perception research as well as applied research in architecture and interior design.

Virtual reality (VR) user interfaces contain numerous dynamic interactive tasks, among which acquiring moving targets is a common basic one. Previous studies have investigated user performance in moving target acquisition in desktop and touchscreen settings. However, these findings are not directly transferable to VR where targets and user input have complete freedom in three dimensions. This paper concentrates on motion-in-depth, that is, where a target predominantly exhibits approaching or receding movement as opposed to lateral motion across the user's field of view. We report on two studies investigating how various factors including texture, shadow, alignment, moving speed and moving direction affect: 1) perception accuracy of 3D targets with motion-indepth, and 2) user performance, which we define as the combination of movement time (MT) and error rate (ER), in a target acquisition task involving motion-in-depth. Our data reveal a number of empirical results that are distinct from the depth perception of static targets and the user performance of 1D/2D target acquisition. We found that MT and ER when acquiring targets with motion-in-depth have strong regularities as the data showed good fits with Jagacinski's model for movement time estimation and a Ternary-Gaussian model for error rate prediction. We conclude with implications derived from this study for future designs.

The recent pandemic, war, and oil crises have caused many to reconsider their need to travel for education, training, and meetings. Providing assistance and training remotely has thus gained importance for many applications, from industrial maintenance to surgical telemonitoring. Current solutions such as video conferencing platforms lack essential communication cues such as spatial referencing, which negatively impacts both time completion and task performance. Mixed Reality (MR) offers opportunities to improve remote assistance and training, as it opens the way to increased spatial clarity and large interaction space. We contribute a survey of remote assistance and training in MR environments through a systematic literature review to provide a deeper understanding of current approaches, benefits and challenges. We analyze 62 articles and contextualize our findings along a taxonomy based on degree of collaboration, perspective sharing, MR space symmetry, time, input and output modality, visual display, and application domain. We identify the main gaps and opportunities in this research area, such as exploring collaboration scenarios beyond one-expert-to-one-trainee, enabling users to move across the reality-virtuality spectrum during a task, or exploring advanced interaction techniques that resort to hand or eye tracking. Our survey informs and helps researchers in different domains, including maintenance, medicine, engineering, or education, build and evaluate novel MR approaches to remote training and assistance. All supplemental materials are available at https://augmented-perception.org/publications/2023-training-survey.html.

Common architectural visualization is using 3D digital model represented in 2D media such as screen and papers. However, this method has two limitations. First, it does not have a full scale to provide a true perception space. Second, the 2D media to represent the 3D model is static. These limitations diminish the user's experience and understanding of space. Currently, architectural visualization is starting to utilize technological advances of virtual reality (VR) and interactive game engine. The full-scale projection in VR can minimize the perception gap between the client's and the designer's idea. It also has interactivity that enables users to explore the space and perform direct manipulation at some design aspects. This paper observes how VR and interactive technology is used to explore scale, lighting experience, and material iterations. The research was conducted for one semester in 2 courses. In these courses, students worked in groups to create, experience, test, and evaluate their design through 3D VR environment and interactive representation. Afterwards, the VR was tested to common users. We examined the enhancement that users get by experiencing design through VR compared to viewing the architectural visualization on picture and discuss how this could be improved and integrated to curriculum.

Virtual Reality(VR) has the power to enhance other significant facets of society in addition to our entertainment consumption and perception patterns. The treatment of mental diseases associated with stress is one area where virtual reality is beginning to yield benefits. With the use of virtual reality (VR), relaxation therapy can reach a new level where customized and scalable solutions can be provided without requiring on-site, full-time personnel. This study introduces VR relax, a customized virtual reality relaxation technique. It offers users a customized, soothing virtual environment. A novel virtual reality (VR) platform called MindSerenity uses immersive, customized experiences to reduce anxiety and enhance mental health. By utilizing virtual reality technology, MindSerenity provides a range of guided virtual ascents to peaceful places and relaxation techniques, allowing users to experience a personalized journey towards serenity. These experiences are thoughtfully designed to cater to personal requirements and tastes, making them an extremely useful tool for stress relief and anxiety reduction. By providing a practical, approachable, and entertaining means of promoting emotional resilience we helped to recover 10 patients and enhancing mental wellness in general. With the use of online learning strategies and semantic approaches, mind serenity offers users a customized, soothing virtual environment.

Tracking technologies are becoming an affordable commodity due to the wide use in mobile devices today. However, all tracking technologies available in commodity hardware is error prone due to problems such as drift, latency and jitter. The current understanding of human perception of static tracking errors is limited. This information about human perception might be useful in designing tracking systems for the display of AR and VR scenarios on commodity hardware. In this paper we present the findings of a study on the human perception of static orientation errors in a tracking system, using two different setups leveraging a handheld viewfinder: a classical augmented scenario and an indirect augmented one. By categorizing static orientation errors by scenario and local orientation axis, new insights into the users' ability to register orientational errors in the system are found. Our results show that users are much more aware of errors in classical AR scenarios in comparison to indirect AR scenarios. For both scenarios, the users registered roll orientation errors differently from both pitch and yaw orientation errors, and pitch and yaw perception is highly dependent on the scenario. However, the users performance ranking for orientational errors in AR scenarios was unexpected.

Many people often take walking for granted, but for individuals with mobility disabilities, this seemingly simple act can feel out of reach. This reality can foster a sense of disconnect from the world since walking is a fundamental way in which people interact with each other and the environment. Advances in virtual reality and its immersive capabilities have made it possible to enable those who have never walked in their life to "virtually" experience walking. We co-designed a VR walking experience with a person with Spinal Muscular Atrophy who has been a lifelong wheelchair user. Over 9 days, we collected data on this person's experience through a diary study and analyzed this data to better understand the design elements required. Given that they had only ever seen others walking and had not experienced it first-hand, determining which design parameters must be considered in order to match the virtual experience to their idea of walking was challenging. Generally, we found the experience of walking to be quite positive, providing a perspective from a higher vantage point than what was available in a wheelchair. Our findings provide insights into the emotional complexities and evolving sense of agency accompanying virtual walking. These findings have implications for designing more inclusive and emotionally engaging virtual reality experiences.

Excessive motorisation, resulting from the vicious cycle of car-oriented road development and car-reliant land development, significantly deteriorates walking environments, causing traffic safety problems, damaging city-centre vitality, and hindering sustainable mobility. Many Asian cities face these issues, and as a result, it is often difficult for their street users to experience higher level walking needs, such as comfort and attractiveness, in their daily walking environments. Without such experiences, street users may have difficulty in finding high quality street environments. Visualisation technologies allowing street users to virtually experience more diverse walking needs may assist them in recognising new visions of walkable cities. Accordingly, this study conducts an experimental analysis of walkability evaluations by applying virtual reality tools for evaluating various streets to answer the following research questions: (1) How are street environments related to walking perceptions and behaviours? (2) Is virtual reality visualisation advantageous for revealing these relationships? The research conducted an experiment on virtual reality walkability evaluation that examined perception-based evaluations of street environments in car-reliant large cities of Japan, Thailand, and Australia. The evaluation mechanism of walkability was analysed based on walking needs, taking into account the impact of the virtual reality tools. The results demonstrate that virtual reality evaluation of internationally diverse street environments reflects the sensitivity of walking willingness to the satisfaction of hierarchical walking needs. Further, the impact of virtual reality use was observed in the greater engagement with virtual environments, which is related to higher walking willingness. The results have major implications for planning and design practices, suggesting the potential of virtual reality-based evaluation systems as useful tools for creating and implementing new visions of walkable cities.

Recent advancements in Mixed Reality (MR) technology have catalyzed a profound reevaluation and transformation in the way information is presented in physical museums and exhibition spaces. MR technology transcends the limitations of traditional, flat presentations, integrating with museum and exhibition environments to enrich the levels of information display, thereby creating more captivating experiences for users. Current research primarily focuses on developing informational prompts and navigational aids within these spaces. However, there remains a notable deficiency in addressing users' deeper needs for spatial macro-cognition and interactive communication. Our study delves into the advantages of globe-based information displays, merging them with the virtual reality aspects of MR technology. This integration forms a specialized 3D, multi-dimensional information display and spatial interaction system for museums and exhibition spaces. Utilizing the globe's longitudinal and latitudinal descriptions, the system exploits the unique attributes of the sphere. By differentiating personal and public spaces and integrating user behavior patterns with the characteristics of the globe, a range of globe-based interactive methods are designed, including activation, picking up, throwing, navigating, and following. This culminates in a collaborative and shared experience for multiple users in a single setting, enhancing their spatial perception and interactivity.

This paper presents a new system for offshore floating petroleum platforms design and simulation using virtual reality technology. Environmental conditions and visual effects were introduced together the analysis results to build a realistic experience. The system integrates the capabilities of a large scale design system PROSIM, for design and evaluation of floating structures, mooring lines and rigid or flexible risers under wave, wind and current effect, with realistic visual effects and environmental conditions representation to enhance the visual perception and phenomenon understanding.

Cultural institutions are increasingly prioritizing the utilization of diverse mixed reality technologies to enrich the visitor experience during their physical exhibitions. These institutions are actively integrating virtual assets to enhance interactivity and facilitate immersive storytelling experiences. The use of extended reality technologies in cultural heritage dissemination has become a common solution to improve the perception on cultural heritage of their visitors. The objective of the proposed research is to conduct a comparative analysis of three distinct extended reality applications used in cultural heritage experiences. The proposed workflow integrates advanced 3D scanning technology and additive manufacturing techniques to produce tangible replicas which are further enhanced using extended reality technologies, such as augmented reality, desktop virtual reality, and immersive virtual reality. To evaluate the developed extended reality applications, we have conducted various System Usability Scale tools to assess applications' usability while also trying to identify the most appropriate application that can be integrated within the museum exhibition. From a utility point of view, we found no notable differences in the user perceptions between proposed solutions, whereas from a usability and satisfaction point of view, the most preferred solution was the augmented reality one. The workflow is presented in sufficient detail to ensure the replication of the results. Z8 0

Haptics have increasingly gained importance in the field of user interface design by addressing tactile sensing in addition to visual and acoustic stimulation. Mid-air haptics allow tactile feedback without contact or wearable hardware and offer advanced control and output mechanisms as well as different sensory modalities for user interfaces (UI) and Virtual/Augmented Reality (VR/AR) applications. Using midair haptics virtual objects can offer tactile interaction, thus making contact-free UI interaction more viable. This paper investigates the user perception of ultrasonic haptic signals. By presenting test subjects a broad selection of haptic signals and researching the actually perceived stimuli as well as inquiring the test subjects' thoughts about their experience, conclusions on the optimal design and application of ultrasonic haptic signals are made. This is done by comparing haptic signals of different shapes and dynamics but constant intensity and researching the subjectively perceived signal intensity and the participant's success in detecting the correct shape. This allows better targeting of specific sensations in order to let users perceive concrete signals. It also offers insight into better design of haptic signals to achieve optimal user detection. The results of this investigation were applied in form of a demonstrator, which highlights multiple mid-air haptics and input modalities in different application scenarios.

Immersive technologies, such as VR, offer first-person experiences using depth perception and spatial awareness that elucidate a sense of space impossible with traditional visualization techniques. This paper looks beyond the visual aspects and towards understanding the experiential aspects of two popular uses of VR in 3D architectural visualization: a "passive walkthrough" and an "interactive walkthrough". We designed a within-subject experiment to measure the user-perceived quality for both experiences. All participants (N = 34) were exposed to both scenarios and afterwards responded to a post-experience questionnaire; meanwhile, their physical activity and simple active behaviors were also recorded. Results indicate that while the fully immersive-interactive experience rendered a heightened sense of presence in users, overt behaviors (movement and gesture) did not change for users. We discuss the potential use of subjective assessments and user behavior analysis to understand user-perceived experiential quality inside virtual environments, which should be useful in building taxonomies and designing affordances that best fit these environments.

Prior work has shown that embodiment can benefit virtual agents, such as increasing rapport and conveying nonverbal information. However, it is unclear if users prefer an embodied to a speech-only agent for augmented reality (AR) headsets that are designed to assist users in completing real-world tasks. We conducted a study to examine users' perceptions and behaviors when interacting with virtual agents in AR. We asked 24 adults to wear the Microsoft HoloLens and find objects in a hidden object game while interacting with an agent that would offer assistance. We presented participants with four different agents: voice-only, non-human, full-size embodied, and a miniature embodied agent. Overall, users preferred the miniature embodied agent due to the novelty of his size and reduced uncanniness as opposed to the larger agent. From our results, we draw conclusions about how agent representation matters and derive guidelines on designing agents for AR headsets.

In perceiving a virtual environment (VE), distance perception is important in that it affects users' behaviors and interactions. This study addresses an on-going issue of virtual reality (VR), distance underestimation within a VE. For this purpose, a 2x2x2x5 mixed design was used with two between-subject variables [visual cue for perception (provided and non-provided) and visual cue for action (provided and non-provided)] and two within-subject variables [response measure (verbal estimation and triangulated blind walking) and distance (1 m, 5 m, 10 m, 20 m, and 35 m)]. Sixty-four undergraduate or graduate students participated in the experiment, and a cube was chosen as the target object. The experimental results showed that visual cues for action mitigated distance underestimation and improved the accuracy of perceived distances. In general, distance underestimation was more obvious in the triangulated blind walking than the verbal estimation, and in the action/vista space than personal space, with relatively lower accuracies. Meanwhile, when visual cue for action were provided, the degree of underestimation decreased significantly with higher accuracy particularly in the triangulated blind walking. Although overestimation was found across all the distances in the verbal estimation, overestimation was found only for the personal distance, and underestimation was found for the action/vista distances in the triangulated blind walking. In both response measures, the accuracy of distance perceptions were the worst in the 10 m condition. These findings can be expected to provide insight into the problem of distance underestimation and can help guide design of VEs. Z8 0

Three-dimensional sound's effectiveness in virtual reality (VR) environments has been widely studied., However, due to the big. differences between VR and augmented reality (AR) systems in registration, calibration, perceptual difference of immersiveness, navigation, and localization, it is important to develop new approaches to seamlessly register virtual 3-D sound in AR environments and conduct studies on 3-D sound's effectiveness in AR context. In this paper, we design two experimental AR environments to study the effectiveness of 3-D sound both quantitatively and qualitatively. Two different tracking methods are applied to retrieve the 3-D position of virtual sound sources in each experiment. We examine the impacts of 3-D sound on improving depth perception and shortening task completion time. We also investigate its impacts on immersive and realistic perception, different spacial objects identification, and subjective feeling of "human presence and collaboration." Our studies show that applying 3-D sound is an effective way to complement visual AR environments. It helps depth perception and task performance, and facilitates collaborations between users. Moreover, it enables a more realistic environment and more immersive feeling of being inside the AR environment by both visual and auditory means. In order to make full use of the intensity cues provided by 3-D sound, a process to scale the intensity difference of 3-D sound at different depths is designed to cater small AR environments. The user study results show that the scaled 3-D sound significantly increases the accuracy of depth judgments and shortens the searching task completion time. This method provides a necessary foundation for implementing 3-D sound in small AR environments. Our user study results also show that this process does not degrade the intuitiveness and realism of an augmented audio reality environment. Z8 0

In this paper, we used eye tracking methodologies to investigate students' visual perceptions of lectures using 3D real-time virtual Studio technology. For measuring learning performance, we also gave the students multiple-choice paper quizzes at the end of the lectures. Three virtual lectures were created with different types of lecture materials (text-centered, image-centered, and lecturer-centered) and 3D virtual sets (classroom, cyberspace, and lecture-theme space). Through analyzing students' eye movements in viewing still and moving scenes of the virtual lectures, we found that layouts and movements of design elements on lecture screens significantly influenced students' scanpaths and areas of interest (AOIs). Lecture material types affected learning performance while 3D virtual sets had no effect due to students' inattention to the virtual background areas. We discuss effective ways to develop virtual lectures and design lecture screens for better presentation of lecture content and higher learning performance.

Virtual reality (VR) and hypnosis (H) are useful pain management tools, but the potential benefit of their combination (VRH) has yet to be studied. This study examines the user experience of VRH, compared to H and VR alone, using interviews following an experimental study examining the effect of the three interventions on pain perception. Following a within-subjects repeated measures experimental design, 16 participants received the three interventions during which they received painful electrical stimuli. Following each intervention, explanatory interviews were conducted to allow participants to elaborate on their user experience. A thematic analysis was conducted on the data collected. Three themes emerged from the interviews: (1) satisfaction: participants mostly had positive feelings toward the three modalities, with the most beneficial effects on relaxation expressed for H. (2) Body perception and attention focus: immersion in the VR and VRH conditions was appreciated. Participants described their perceptions of pain perception during the 3 conditions. (3) Device acceptability: H was the most liked, followed by VRH, and then VR alone. Intention of use was reported following the same order. The data collected highlighted participants' opinions of these different interventions and suggested adjustments for future development of the VRH intervention in pain management. Z8 0

Displaying three-dimensional content on a flat display is bound to reduce the impression of depth, particularly for mobile video see-trough augmented reality. Several applications in this domain can benefit from accurate depth perception, especially if there are contradictory depth cues, like occlusion in a x-ray visualization. The use of stereoscopy for this effect is already prevalent in head-mounted displays, but there is little research on the applicability for hand-held augmented reality. We have implemented such a prototype using an off-the-shelf smartphone equipped with a stereo camera and an autostereoscopic display. We designed and conducted an extensive user study to explore the effects of stereoscopic hand-held augmented reality on depth perception. The results show that in this scenario depth judgment is mostly influenced by monoscopic depth cues, but our system can improve positioning accuracy in challenging scenes.

Identifying and characterizing the factors that affect presence in virtual environments has been acknowledged as a critical step to improving Virtual Reality (VR) applications in the built environment domain. In the search to identify those factors, the research objective was to test whether three-dimensional perception affects presence in virtual environments. A controlled within-group experiment utilizing perception and presence questionnaires was conducted, followed by data analysis, to test the hypothesized unidirectional association between three-dimensional perception and presence in two different virtual environments (non-immersive and immersive). Results indicate no association in either of the systems studied, contrary to the assumption of many scholars in the field but in line with recent studies on the topic. Consequently, VR applications in architectural design may not necessarily need to incorporate advanced stereoscopic visualization techniques to deliver highly immersive experiences, which may be achieved by addressing factors other than depth realism. As findings suggest that the levels of presence experienced by users are not subject to the display mode of a 3D model (whether immersive or non-immersive display), it may still be possible for professionals involved in the review of 3D models (e.g., designers, contractors, clients) to experience high levels of presence through non-stereoscopic VR systems pro-vided that other presence-promoting factors are included. Z8 0

Daylighting plays an eminent role in the performance of indoor environments and their occupants, thus necessitating the need to investigate daylight perception of potential occupants at early design stages. The present study introduces an interactive approach to collect and visualize brightness perception of daylighting in a large-scale immersive virtual environment, using a game engine as a daylight simulation tool. The developed system allows users to explore building models freely at different day times set in virtual reality and report their perceptions in real time. Following a validation study (N=36) to investigate the consistency of brightness perceptions in a real environment and its virtual replica, a set of 24 participants were recruited to use the system to report their brightness perception in a virtual model of a daylit art museum, through snapshotting the scenes where they perceive as one of the following in terms of daylighting: (very dark, dark, bright, or very bright). Using an output of 419 snapshots, a "Perceptual Light Map" (PLM) was developed to visualize the collective brightness perception of participants as a heat map. Subjective responses were found to be positively correlated with four daylight metrics, with the highest correlation to mean luminance and the lowest to luminance ratio. The findings of this exploratory study represent a step towards a user-oriented supplement tool to the existing quantitative daylight metrics, validating game engines' adequacy as a daylight simulation tool, and illustrating the potentials of immersion and interaction principles for the perception of daylit spaces in virtual reality.

The human factor plays an important role in the successful design of infrastructure to support sustainable mobility. By engaging users early in the design process, information can be obtained before physical environments are built, making designed spaces more attractive and safer for users. This study presents the collected data of a virtual reality (VR) application in which user perception has been evaluated within an urban redevelopment context. The area under consideration is the Canal of the Port of Rimini (Italy), a degraded area not connected to the city center. The redevelopment of degraded urban areas is the first step towards achieving the sustainability aims set out in the Sustainable Development Goals. Prior to this work, evaluation methods were developed in the decision-making process, considering different social, economic, and environmental aspects in order to obtain a priority scale of interventions for urban regeneration. Architectural solutions were proposed to represent targeted and specific interventions that are designed precisely for the context to which they are dedicated in order to make the Canal Port area a continuum with its urban context and to improve its perception by tourists and inhabitants. To assess these proposed infrastructure modifications, two models of VR were created, one relevant to the current condition and one representing the future condition after redevelopment of the area. Virtual visits to the Canal of the Port of Rimini were created under two scenarios, namely, the current situation and the future situation after redevelopment of the infrastructure. Then, human participants were involved through two different questionnaires. The first allowed participants validate the VR model created by comparing it with the real context, while the second served to evaluate the perceptions of users by comparing the two VR models of the canal before and after the intervention. The results of this empirical research highlight the benefits of engaging users early in the design process and improving the user experience before implementing renovation of the infrastructure.

Pets in real life and pets in virtual worlds play two different roles in a human's life. To date, the relationships between humans and virtual pets, especially in virtual reality environments (VRE), remain uninvestigated and relatively unexploited in designing virtual pet games. This paper examines the perceptions, motivations and expectations of people who play games involving pets, and how emotional connection with real pets affect their expectation for pets in VREs. To investigate this, we analyzed data collected from (i) an online survey of 774 people and (ii) observations and interviews with 30 people who played VR pet games in a lab study. Differences in perception, motivation and expectation in virtual reality pet games were found between players who have pets or do not. These findings deepen our understanding of the formation of emotion connections in VREs and provide a basis for studying individual differences in emotion in virtual pet games.

in the process of the new period technological development, virtual reality technology and interactive media art as products of the new digital technology and media art, more and more apply in people's work and life. By using of virtual reality technology in the early stage of product design, can more intuitively express creators of intentions, then make a more artistic treatment on the screen, develop interactive mode, use new digital media art, which can give users a new experience and perception, so that it can provide more suggestions and solutions to the feasibility of the latter part of the product design and diversity. This paper mainly analyzes the application of virtual reality technology and media interactive art in product design.

Although virtual reality (VR) programs to provide firefighting training continue to be developed and adopted, our investigation with 15 firefighters indicates that a current VR training system tends to convey behavioral tips and does not sufficiently reflect actual firefighters' needs and realities in the field. It often provides somewhat simplified fire simulations and actually lowers the effectiveness of the training. In this paper, we employ Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) methods to examine and identify core elements in firefighting scenarios and develop a VR system that incorporates such elements. We evaluate our system with respect to presence and three design components of the VR simulation (i.e., reality, meaning, play) through a user study with 22 participants. Our study results demonstrate greater user experience and perception toward the four elements in firefighting training with our VR system compared to the existing one. We discuss design implications (e.g., move control, degree of freedom, sight hindrance by smoke, unexpected events) of our study that are expected to help implement and provide an effective VR training system for firefighters.

When merging physical and virtual objects with optical see-through augmented reality there is little research that has focused on x-ray vision visualizations considering depth perception. We investigate partial occlusion visualizations when merging visual cues and real-world objects to explore the effect of the visualizations with a procedural placement task. We adapted existing x-ray visualization techniques designed for Video See-Through (VST) Augmented Reality to operate on Optical See-Through (OST) devices and investigated how these techniques affect accuracy in a placement task within arms reach. We evaluate the visualizations' impact on accuracy when user movement is unrestricted and report the perceived usability and mental load of each visualization. Our findings indicate that although the type of x-ray visualization is important, the presence of other virtual objects in the scene appears to have a stronger impact on the users' accuracy in placing objects and user experience.

Virtual reality (VR) systems have been developed to enhance the conventional industrial design and manufacturing process, including worker training and factory planning. However, research studies have shown that the prolonged use of VR systems can result in certain discomforts among users. This research evaluates the user experience (UX) during the first interaction in a semi-immersive and haptic-enabled virtual assembly system. The aim is to evaluate the UX by considering variations in task duration in order to determine whether the length of the time spent on a virtual assembly task has an effect on the improvement or deterioration of the UX during the initial interactions of new users. The UX evaluation is based on key elements that characterize the user experience, such as perceptions of the product, emotions, consequences to use, realism, and physiological factors. In particular, the interest is to investigate whether these factors vary when performing a virtual assembly task along different time frames. The results have revealed significant differences in some dimensions of the user experience, physiological factors, and realism. This information encourages the formulation of guidelines to enhance the user experience of new operators of haptic-enabled virtual assembly systems.

This article presents AlterVerse, a framework that provides users with novel experiences through visual illusions of interactively altering physical objects in extended reality environments. In the AlterVerse framework, physical objects are seamlessly virtualized by aligning their 3-D virtual replicas with them. It enables users to manipulate (move or rotate) and reshape (deform the shapes or transform the styles of) the physical objects virtually. Simultaneously, the physical objects are visually removed from a physical environment, creating the perception that the altering occurs directly on the physical objects. As a promising application of the AlterVerse framework, the article demonstrates interactive virtual altering of home furniture in interior design or decoration scenarios without physically altering existing furniture.

Studies in virtual reality (VR) have introduced numerous multisensory simulation techniques for more immersive VR experiences. However, although they primarily focus on expanding sensory types or increasing individual sensory quality, they lack consensus in designing appropriate interactions between different sensory stimuli. This paper explores how the congruence between auditory and visual (AV) stimuli, which are the sensory stimuli typically provided by VR devices, affects the cognition and experience of VR users as a critical interaction factor in promoting multisensory integration. We defined the types of (in)congruence between AV stimuli, and then designed 12 virtual spaces with different types or degrees of congruence between AV stimuli. We then evaluated the presence, immersion, motion sickness, and cognition changes in each space. We observed the following key findings: 1) there is a limit to the degree of temporal or spatial incongruence that can be tolerated, with few negative effects on user experience until that point is exceeded; 2) users are tolerant of semantic incongruence; 3) a simulation that considers synesthetic congruence contributes to the user's sense of immersion and presence. Based on these insights, we identified the essential considerations for designing sensory simulations in VR and proposed future research directions.

A qualitative research study was conducted through explorative workshops to better understand the experiences, perceptions, needs, and expectations of the users and potential users of virtual human factors (VHF) tools. Five VHF tools were presented to ergonomists, engineers, and managers who participated in four whole-day interactive workshops: HF enabled predetermined motion time systems (PMTS), discrete event simulation (DES), complex and simple digital human models (DHM), and virtual reality (VR). Data were collected by note-takers, digital audio recording, and written feedback. Identified characteristics shared by the tools were organized into 9 categories that act as a motivational or deterring factor for the use of the tool: time, cost, training, difficulty of use, trustworthiness, graphics, flexibility, usefulness, and report presentation. Other tool specific areas of improvement were also identified by participants to help developers improve these design instruments.

The application of virtual reality technology in science experiment education is a research with practical significance and value in human-computer interaction. However, in some existing education tools based on virtual reality, due to the single interaction mode, the complexity of user intention and the non-physical interaction characteristics brought by virtualization, their experimental teaching ability is limited, resulting in the lack of practical value and popularity. In order to solve these problems, a multimodal interaction model is constructed by fusing gesture, speech and pressure information. Specifically, our tasks include: 1) collecting user input information and time series information to construct basic data input tuples. 2) The basic interaction information is used to identify the user's basic intention, and the correlation degree between the user's intentions is considered to determine the correctness of the current identification intention. 3) It allows users to alternate between multi-channel and single channel interaction. Based on this model, we build a multi-modal intelligent interactive virtual experiment platform (MIIVEP), and design and implement a kind of dropper with strong perception ability, which has been verified, tested, evaluated and applied in the intelligent virtual experiment system. In addition, in order to evaluate this work more effectively, we developed a fair scoring criterion for the virtual experimental system (Evaluation scale of virtual experiment system, ESVES), and invited middle school teachers and students to participate in the verification of the results of this work. Through the user's actual use effect verification and result research, we prove the effectiveness of the proposed model and the corresponding implementation.

Purpose Immersive virtual environments (IVEs) aid in perceiving spaces by providing a platform for all stakeholders to make better decisions at early design stages. Nevertheless, they are not widely used in architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry. This paper aims to illustrate the impact of level of details (LODs) in participants' perception for architecture design alternatives in IVEs. Design/methodology/approach This paper presents an approach to estimate how distance perception varies between real and virtual environments when different design alternatives are implemented. First, a fully three-dimensional (3D) model for a replica meeting room was created and the level of details (LODs) inside the IVE was gradually modified. Second, a questionnaire was designed to collect responses about how the perceived experience of an IVE is compared to that of the physical environment, where the two environments have the same dimensions. Twenty-six participants were recruited in this study to estimate eight distances in the IVEs while putting on a head-mounted display. Findings Obtained results show that decreasing LOD has negative effect on users' perception. Thus, when all of the available LODs were added to the IVE, the perceived perception was significantly enhanced. These findings emphasize the relation between the physical details and distance perception in IVEs and shed light on how to design virtual reality architectural models in an efficient manner. Originality/value Different experiments were conducted to analyze perception differences associated with factors such as LODs, gender and whether participants are wearing glasses.

This position paper outlines a study on the influence of avatars displaying warmth or coldness cues on interpersonal space in virtual reality. Participants will engage in a comfort-distance task, approaching avatars exhibiting thermoregulatory behaviors. Anticipated findings include a reduction in interpersonal distance with warm cues and an increase with cold cues. The study will offer insights into the complex interplay between temperature, social perception, and interpersonal space.

Material representation has always been an important part of visual effects in industrial design. And the judgment and recognition of product material often remain on the rendering effect drawings of the 2D display. However, it cannot fully intuitive performed, even sometimes cannot identify the specific material composition. As a device to simulate the real environment, VR strengthens people's immersive experience by its 3D sense of space. The purpose of this study is to explore whether the material perception in VR is different from that in traditional 2D mode, and to determine whether VR can be used as a tool for users' material perception in the future. The study found that VR provides the users with stereoscopic visual effects not seen on a 2D display. This feature seems to deepen the perception of material, which may facilitate the design of industrial products, furniture design, automotive interior and so on.

Auditory feedback is an important element in the perception of one's surroundings. Vocal intonation betrays emotion, step frequency determines urgency, and volume gives way to proximity. While it is widely understood that sound is an important element in game design and film, research on how auditory feedback affects interactions taking place in virtual reality experiences is lacking. In this work, we propose an experiment in which we will begin to uncover the effect of auditory feedback, particularly spatial audio, on the preservation of personal space in an immersive virtual environment. Users will be exposed to visual and auditory stimuli and asked to report both interpersonal and peripersonal space. Personal space is dynamically responsive to circumstance, and is notably malleable by the presence of auditory stimuli in the real world. Consequently, we expect personal space to dynamically change in the presence of auditory stimuli in an immersive virtual environment. There is no prior study into how auditory feedback affects the maintenance of this space in virtual reality.

User representations are critical to the virtual experience, and involve both the input device used to support interactions as well as how the user is virtually represented in the scene. Inspired by previous work that has shown effects of user representations on the perceptions of relatively static affordances, we attempt to investigate how end-effector representations affect the perceptions of affordances that dynamically change over time. Towards this end, we empirically evaluated how different virtual hand representations affect users' perceptions of dynamic affordances in an object retrieval task wherein users were tasked with retrieving a target from a box for a number of trials while avoiding collisions with its moving doors. We employed a 3 (virtual end-effector representation) X 13 (frequency of moving doors) X 2 (target object size) multi-factorial design, manipulating the input modality and its concomitant virtual end-effector representation as a between-subjects factor across three experimental conditions: (1) Controller (using a controller represented as a virtual controller); (2) Controller-hand (using a controller represented as a virtual hand); (3) Glove (using a hand tracked hi-fidelity glove represented as a virtual hand). Results indicated that the controller-hand condition produced lower levels of performance than both the other conditions. Furthermore, users in this condition exhibited a diminished ability to calibrate their performance over trials. Overall, we find that representing the end-effector as a hand tends to increase embodiment but can also come at the cost of performance, or an increased workload due to a discordant mapping between the virtual representation and the input modality used. It follows that VR system designers should carefully consider the priorities and target requirements of the application being developed when choosing the type of end-effector representation for users to embody in immersive virtual experiences.

With the availability of data and visualization capabilities, digital twins have grown in use cases and entered the virtual reality (VR) realm. Utilizing VR enhances the value of digital twins by enabling training, testing, and refinement of a system, through support of a user's workflow when interacting with the system. However, VR is not fully representative of real-world environments, particularly in areas such as visual perception, proprioception, vestibular response, and perceptions of information. The simulation and training domain has learned which ways VR can benefit users and which ways it falls short-allowing a rich domain of information for the digital twin world to leverage. While many of these differences can be mitigated through targeted environmental design or hardware selection, these differences in perceptual capabilities and feedback negatively impact the validity of VR digital twins. These impacts could range from user discomfort, injury, negative transfer to the real world, and poor design decisions based on unrepresentative digital twins. This paper will discuss the current use cases of digital twins in VR that center on human interaction, common perceptual concerns in VR uncovered in simulation research, and how these issues could impact a digital twin's representativeness. As the applicability of digital twins in VR expands, mitigations for perceptual issues in VR and open areas for improvement in VR for digital twins are presented.

Body image/body schema (BIBS) is within the larger realm of embodied cognition. Its interdisciplinary literature can inspire Virtual Reality (VR) researchers and designers to develop novel ideas and provide them with approaches to human perception and experience. In this paper, we introduced six fundamental ideas in designing interactions in VR, derived from BIBS literature that demonstrates how the mind is embodied. We discuss our own research, ranging from two mature works to a prototype, to support explorations VR interaction design from a BIBS approach. Based on our experiences, we argue that incorporating ideas of embodiment into design practices requires a shift in the perspective or understanding of the human body, perception and experiences, all of which affect interaction design in unique ways. The dynamic, interactive and distributed understanding of cognition guides our approach to interaction design, where the interrelatedness and plasticity of BIBS play a crucial role.

Virtual reality (VR) allows embodying any possible avatar. Known as the Proteus effect, avatars can change users' behavior and attitudes. Previous work found that embodying Albert Einstein can increase cognitive task performance. The behavioral confirmation paradigm, however, predicts that our behavior is also affected by others' perception of us. Therefore, we investigated the cognitive performance in collaborative VR when self-perception and external perception of the own avatar differ. 32 male participants performed a Tower of London task in pairs. One participant embodied Einstein or a young adult while the other perceived the participant as Einstein or a young adult. We show that the perception by others affects cognitive performance. The Einstein avatar also decreased the perceived workload. Results imply that avatars' appearance to both, the user and the others must be considered when designing for cognitively demanding tasks.

Over the last couple of years, there has been a big push toward making immersive and mixed technologies available to the general public. Yet, designing for these new technologies is challenging, as users need to position virtual objects in 3D space. The current state-of-the art technologies used to access these virtual environments (e.g., Head-mount displays (HMD)s also presents additional challenges for designers when considering depth perception issues that affect user precision. Moreover, these challenges are exacerbated when designers consider accessibility needs of special populations. To make new immersive and mixed technologies more accessible, we propose a tutorial at UbiComp / ISWC 2023 to discuss design strategies, research methodologies, and implementation practices with special populations using technologies across the physical-virtual reality spectrum. In this tutorial participants will learn how to make these technologies more accessible by (1) teaching students of the tutorial how to design, prototype, and evaluate these technologies using empirical research. We aim to (2) bring together researchers, practitioners, and students who are interested in making immersive and mixed technologies more accessible and (3) identify common problems when designing new user interfaces.

We present a virtual reality framework and assistive tool for design practices for new medical environments, grounded on human visual perception, attention and action. This includes an interactive visualization of shared electronic patient records, previously acquired with a remote tablet device, in a virtual environment incorporating hand tracking, eye tracking and a vision-based peripheral view monitoring. The goal is to influence medical environments' affordances, especially for e-health and m-health applications as well as user experience and design conception for tele-medicine.

Haptic virtual reality is often misunderstood as being solely a physically identical copy of real environments. Thus, a perfect recording and reproduction of vibration that is indistinguishable in an A:B comparison is often the aim. However, in most virtual reality applications the real environment is not available for direct comparison. Instead, when judging the plausibility of a presented scene, the user compares the vibration to his expectations shaped by the audiovisual context. Therefore, it should be sufficient to find any vibration that the user expects to potentially occur in the given context. Such a vibration needs to elicit a perceptual profile with a minimal distance to an expected profile in the sensory tactile perceptual space. Building onto this formalization, this article demonstrates a novel generative model-based approach to authoring vibrations. First, users quantify expectations as tactile profiles consisting of ratings of six sensory tactile attributes without the presence of vibrations. Subsequently, the model predicts vibration parameters from such profiles. This ensures the fulfillment of user expectations and thus high plausibility. Furthermore, it eliminates the necessity of recordings, infeasible for scenes with no real counterpart and opens the door to crowdsourcing the authoring process with laypersons for the haptic metaverse.

In this paper, we present a methodology for the design and evaluation of virtual reality applications. We distinguish between three levels of immersion and interaction: the functional level, the mental level and the sensorimotor level. This provides several design rules. The evaluation of virtual environments thus created is also addressed. We give some details of the on the visual perception system for stereoscopic viewing. This issue is usually not addressed for people consider the standard stereo packages being correct. In our application several constraints make this assumption false. We present a case study for a car dashboard manufacturer. The IMAVE system designed for styling review, gaps visualization and simple ergonomic validation is described and analyzed. Its features do not allow the use of standard styling review package, especially as far as stereoscopic visualization is concerned.

Immersive computer graphics systems strive to generate perceptually realistic user experiences. Current-generation virtual reality (VR) displays are successful in accurately rendering many perceptually important effects, including perspective, disparity, motion parallax, and other depth cues. In this article, we introduce ocular parallax rendering, a technology that accurately renders small amounts of gaze-contingent parallax capable of improving depth perception and realism in VR. Ocular parallax describes the small amounts of depth-dependent image shifts on the retina that are created as the eye rotates. The effect occurs because the centers of rotation and projection of the eye are not the same. We study the perceptual implications of ocular parallax rendering by designing and conducting a series of user experiments. Specifically, we estimate perceptual detection and discrimination thresholds for this effect and demonstrate that it is clearly visible in most VR applications. Additionally, we show that ocular parallax rendering provides an effective ordinal depth cue and it improves the impression of realistic depth in VR. Z8 2

We often interact with our environment through manual handling of objects and exploration of their properties. Object properties (OP), such as texture, stiffness, size, shape, temperature, weight, and orientation provide necessary information to successfully perform interactions. The human haptic perception system plays a key role in this. As virtual reality (VR) has been a growing field of interest with many applications, adding haptic feedback to virtual experiences is another step towards more realistic virtual interactions. However, integrating haptics in a realistic manner, requires complex technological solutions and actual user-testing in virtual environments (VEs) for verification. This review provides a comprehensive overview of recent wearable haptic devices (HDs) categorized by the OP exploration for which they have been verified in a VE. We found 13 studies which specifically addressed user-testing of wearable HDs in healthy subjects. We map and discuss the different technological solutions for different OP exploration which are useful for the design of future haptic object interactions in VR, and provide future recommendations. Z8 0

We have designed and developed a virtual environment to train rugby ball passing skills. Seeking to validate the system's ability to correctly aid training, an initial experiment was performed to examine the effect of stereoscopic technology and the physical screen's setup on the user's ability to perceive virtual distances correctly. Four participants with at least 10 years' experience of playing local-level rugby took part in the experiment to compare the combinations of different user positions compared to the physical screen, the use of stereoscopic presentation and the use of a floor screen to extend the field of view of the virtual scene. Conversely to what was expected, the participants did not respond well to perceived distance and these variables had little effect on the distance thrown.

Visual and auditory cues are important facilitators of user engagement in virtual environments and video games. Prior research supports the notion that our perception of visual fidelity (quality) is influenced by auditory stimuli. Understanding exactly how our perception of visual fidelity changes in the presence of multimodal stimuli can potentially impact the design of virtual environments, thus creating more engaging virtual worlds and scenarios. Stereoscopic 3-D display technology provides the users with additional visual information (depth into and out of the screen plane). There have been relatively few studies that have investigated the impact that auditory stimuli have on our perception of visual fidelity in the presence of stereoscopic 3-D. Building on previous work, we examine the effect of auditory stimuli on our perception of visual fidelity within a stereoscopic 3-D environment.

Virtual Reality (VR) is well-known for its use in interdisciplinary applications and research. The visual representation of these applications could vary depending in their purpose and hardware limitation, and in those situations could require an accurate perception of size for task performance. However, the relationship between size perception and visual realism in VR has not yet been explored. In this contribution, we conducted an empirical evaluation using a between-subject design over four conditions of visual realism, namely Realistic, Local Lighting, Cartoon, and Sketch on size perception of target objects in the same virtual environment. Additionally, we gathered participants' size estimates in the real world via a within-subject session. We measured size perception using concurrent verbal reports and physical judgments. Our result showed that although participants' size perception was accurate in the realistic condition, surprisingly they could still tune into the invariant but meaningful information in the environment to accurately estimate the size of targets in the non-photorealistic conditions as well. We additionally found that size estimates in verbal and physical responses were generally different in real world and VR viewing and were moderated by trial presentation over time and target object widths.

Chinese traditional glove puppetry is a folk art with a long history. It is worth inheriting and safeguarding this distinguished intangible cultural traditional art using virtual reality. With this background, this study integrates the digital resources of glove puppetry from the perspective of satisfying users' performance needs. In this study, a multi-user, cloud-based virtual reality glove puppetry system was developed that enhances the classic works of glove puppetry. Each user has a unique perception of the virtual environment and can interact remotely. The system involves human-computer and human-human interactions. This study also describes the design and control of glove puppets. The virtual reality system provides a unique entertainment experience to users of all ages. Through a questionnaire administered to 30 subjects after the user play, this study investigated the operation and experience of this system. According to the research findings, the proposed cloud-based VR system is not only easy to use, but also helps to preserve traditional intangible culture. Our research has high theoretical value and can help preserve traditional glove puppetry. Our cloud-based virtual reality system offers a new application for disseminating and preserving intangible cultural heritage.

Modern digital interfaces display typeface in ways new to the 500 year old art of typography, driving a shift in reading from primarily long-form to increasingly short-form. In safety-critical settings, such at-a-glance reading competes with the need to understand the environment. To keep both type and the environment legible, a variety of 'middle layer' approaches are employed. But what is the best approach to presenting type over complex backgrounds so as to preserve legibility? This work tests and ranks middle layers in three studies. In the first study, Gaussian blur and semi-transparent 'scrim' middle layer techniques best maximise legibility. In the second, an optimal combination of the two is identified. In the third, letter-localised middle layers are tested, with results favouring drop-shadows. These results, discussed in mixed reality (MR) including overlays, virtual reality (VR), and augmented reality (AR), considers a future in which glanceable reading amidst complex backgrounds is common. Practitioner summary: Typography over complex backgrounds, meant to be read and understood at a glance, was once niche but today is a growing design challenge for graphical user interface HCI. We provide a technique, evidence-based strategies, and illuminating results for maximising legibility of glanceable typography over complex backgrounds. Z8 0

Embodying avatars in virtual reality (VR) has transformed human experiences, such as in medicine and education. However, there is limited information about users' self-identifications and perceptions of highly fantastical avatars. This pilot study explored the impact of avatar types of low and high fantasy levels on adults' perceptions and behaviors. Participants (N = 18) engaged in a VR experience with either a human or blue Muppet avatar to complete body movement tasks, a cube-touching game, and free-form exploration. Findings showed that participants in the high fantasy avatar condition reported higher identification with their avatar and more interest in social-emotional activities relative to the low fantasy human avatar condition. Across both conditions, participants stood extremely close to the virtual mirror. Additionally, we report on participants preferences and priorities for their future avatars. This offers insights for future research on avatar design, with implications for more engaging VR experience.

Advanced product presentation methods can enhance the product evaluation experience both during the design process and online shopping, as static images often fail to convey essential product details. Virtual Reality (VR) technologies hold great potential in this regard, becoming increasingly accessible to all users. However, the influence of display mediums on emotional responses and product assessment needs further investigation, especially using physiological measures to obtain more objective insights. In this study, we investigate the influence of VR and photorealistic images on assessing and observing virtual prototypes of game controllers. The Semantic Differential technique was employed for product assessment, while built-in eye-tracking was used to measure participants' viewing time on various areas of interest (AOIs). Our findings show that the medium significantly affects not only product evaluation and confidence in the response but also how the user observes it, with sensory-related features being particularly influenced. These findings hold practical implications for product design and vendors, as understanding the relationship between visualization mediums and product evaluation enhances the design process and improves consumer experiences. Z8 0

To design, optimise and deliver multimedia and virtual-reality products and services it is necessary to match performance to the capabilities of users. When a multimedia system is used, the presence of audio and video stimuli introduces significant cross-modal effects (the sensory streams interact). This paper introduces a number of cross-modal interactions that are relevant to communications systems and discusses the advanced experimental techniques required to provide data for modelling multi-modal perception. The aim of the work is to provide a multi-modal perceptual model that can be used for performance assessment and can be incorporated into coding algorithms. The current and future applications of multimodal modelling are discussed.

With the continuous improvement and promotion of new technologies in the information age, virtual reality technology has been widely used. Virtual interaction technology has also begun to penetrate into the application market. At present, virtual reality technology has been widely recognized in the field of interior design, which can be used for target display based on virtual exhibition halls, so it is sought after by many users. This form is different from the previous rigid scene reproduction methods such as images and videos. Customers do not have to be in the actual scene, as long as they can run and watch through the network, and get a sense of reality. This paper develops a kind of virtual interior design system based on VR technology and divides it into two categories: One is virtual reality based on software technology and the other is virtual reality based on virtual hardware technology. The technical principle is based on the following four steps: preprocessing, model transformation, image fusion, and registration, which are tested by simulation experiments. The algorithm proposed in this paper can determine whether the Cu is continuously divided in advance, so as to improve coding efficiency, accelerate the effect display of interior design, and improve customer experience. The intended task of the system design is to bring immersive experience to the target users, so that they can get the most real perception at anytime and anywhere. This paper introduces the virtual reality technology into the interior design to carry out the system application analysis and effect display.

Many driving scenarios involve correctly perceiving road elements in depth and manually responding as appropriate. Of late, augmented reality (AR) head-up displays (HUDs) have been explored to assist drivers in identifying road elements, by using a myriad of AR interface designs that include world-fixed graphics perceptually placed in the forward driving scene. Volumetric AR HUDs purportedly offer increased accuracy of distance perception through natural presentation of oculomotor cues as compared to traditional HUDs. In this article, the authors quantify participant performance matching virtual objects to real-world counterparts at egocentric distances of 7-12 meters while using both volumetric and fixed-focal plane AR HUDs. The authors found the volumetric HUD to be associated with faster and more accurate depth judgements at far distance, and that participants performed depth judgements more quickly as the experiment progressed. The authors observed no differences between the two displays in terms of reported simulator sickness or eye strain.

The manipulation of three dimensional objects is vital to fields such as engineering and architecture, but understanding 3D models from images on 2D screens takes years of experience. Virtual reality offers a powerful tool for the observation and manipulation of 3D objects by giving its users a sense of depth perception and the ability to reach through objects. To understand specific pain points in 2D CAD software, we conducted interviews and a survey of students and professionals with experience using CAD software. We narrowed in on the ability to select interior or obscured elements, and created a VR prototype allowing users to do so. Our usability tests found that compared to 2D software, VR was easier to use, more intuitive, and less frustrating, thought slightly more physically uncomfortable. Finally, we created a set of recommendations for VR CAD programs around action feedback, environmental context, and the necessity of a tutorial.

Immersive Unit Visualization is an emergent form of visualization that arose from Immersive Analytics where, unlike traditional visualizations, each data point is represented by an individual visual mark in an immersive virtual environment. This practice has focused almost exclusively on virtual reality, excluding augmented reality (AR). This article develops and tests a prototype of an Immersive Unit Visualization (Floating Companies II) with two AR devices: head-mounted display (HMD) and hand-held display (HHD). Results from the testing sessions with 20 users were analyzed through qualitative research analysis and thematic coding indicating that, while the HHD enabled a first contact with AR visualization on a familiar device, HMD improved the perception of hybrid space by supporting greater stability of virtual content, wider field of view, improved spatial perception, increased sense of immersion, and more realistic simulation, which had an impact on information reading and sense-making. The materialization of abstract quantitative values into concrete reality through its simulation in the real environment and the ludic dimension stand out as important opportunities for this type of visualization. This paper investigates the aspects distinguishing two experiences regarding data visualization in hybrid space, and characterizes ways of seeing information with AR, identifying opportunities to advance information design research.

This paper describes a study of using the concept of augmented reality for supporting assembly line workers in carrying out their task optimally. By overlaying virtual information on real world objects and thereby enhance the human's perception of reality - augmented reality makes it possible to improve the visual guidance to the workers. In the study, a prototype system is developed based on the Oculus Rift platform and evaluated using a simulated assembling task. The main aim is to investigate user acceptance and how this can possible be improved.

Correct spatial alignment is an essential requirement for convincing augmented reality experiences. Registration error. caused by a variety of systematic. environmental, and user influences decreases the realism and utility of head mounted display AR applications. Focus is often given to rigorous calibration and prediction methods seeking to entirely remove misalignment error between virtual and real content. Unfortunately, producing perfect registration is often simply not possible. Our goal is to quantify the sensitivity of users to registration error in these systems, and identify acceptability thresholds at which users can no longer distinguish between the spatial positioning of virtual and real objects. We simulate both video see-through and optical see-through environments using a projector system and experimentally measure user perception of virtual content misalignment. Our results indicate that users are less perceptive to rotational errors over all and that translational accuracy is less important in optical see-through systems than in video see-through.

As one of the unique cultural products and representative symbols of China, Yixing teapots have a unique aesthetic connotation. The cultural and creative products of Yixing teapot have played a positive role in the inheritance of intangible cultural heritage, however, they still face higher requirements in terms of design innovation and adaptation to users' aesthetic needs. Although several methods of evaluating and measuring user experience have been established, such as subjective reporting and questionnaire surveys, designers still need objective methods to evaluate users' perception and response for Yixing teapots modeling. This paper aims to combine virtual reality and eye tracking technology to recognize users' aesthetic preference for the 3D modeling of Yixing teapots. Eye tracking signals were recorded in a preference categorization task, and users' aesthetic preference was analyzed via eye tracking data and users' subjective evaluation. The results showed that the fixation count and time of first fixation in different AOIs had significant effects on users' subjective evaluation. The study provides an objective method in recognizing users' aesthetic preference, and can provide practical reference for the future modeling design of Yixing teapots.

Experiences in virtual reality (VR) through multiple sensory modalities can he as rich as real-world experiences. However, many VR systems offer only visual and auditory stimuli. In this paper, we present HapticBox, a small, portable, and highly adaptable haptic device that can provide hand-held thermal, wetness, and wind haptics. We evaluated user perception of wetness and wind stimuli in the hand and to the face. The results showed that users had a stronger perception of the stimuli and a higher level of comfort with haptics in the hand. While increasing the voltage enhanced the wind perception, the results suggested that noise is an important side effect. We present our design details and discuss the future work.

Introducing olfactory display in the virtual reality (VR) system brings the immersive experience to new heights. However, it is intractable to simulate olfactory features (such as the intensity and the direction) with multiple levels. Visual stimuli have been proved to dominate human perception among multiple sensors in virtual environments. If visual stimuli can be used to guide the olfactory sense in VR, the design of the olfactory display can be simpler but still able to provide olfactory experience with more diversity. To understand the visual-olfactory effect on different olfactory characteristics, a portable olfactory display that can control the intensity and direction of odors was developed. An experimental study was conducted to investigate cross-modal human perception, i.e. how the visually virtual odor representation in VR influences human perception of real odor produced by the proposed olfactory display. The results showed that the perception of odor intensity and directionality can be modulated by visually virtual odor representation.

Understanding how people effectively perform actions together is fundamental when designing Collaborative Mixed Reality (CMR) applications. While most of the studies on CMR mostly considered either how users are immersed in the CMR (e.g., in virtual or augmented reality) or how the physical workspace is shared by users (i.e., distributed or collocated), little is known about how their combination could influence user's interaction in CMR. In this paper, we present a user study (n = 46, 23 pairs) that investigates the effect of the mixed reality setup on the user's immersion and spatial interaction during a joint-action task. Groups of two participants had to perform two types of joint actions while carrying a virtual rope to maintain a certain distance: (1) Gate, where participants had to pass through a virtual aperture together, and (2) Fruit, where participants had to use a rope to slice a virtual fruit moving in the CMR. Users were either in a distributed or collocated setup and either immersed in virtual or augmented reality. Our results showed that the immersion type and location setup altered users' proxemics as well as the users' subjective experience. In particular, we noticed better task performance when users were in augmented reality and more considerable distances between players while interacting in a distributed setup. These results contribute to the understanding of joint action in CMR and are discussed to improve the design of CMR applications.

Immersive virtual reality allows showing people virtual environments with high levels of presence, realism, and "feeling of being", as if they were in the real world. With this aim, virtual environments must provide proper light distributions and elicit sensations similar to those seen in the real world. So far, experiments with human subjects are the most effective way to evaluate the accuracy of virtual reality in reproducing real spaces. This paper investigates the role of subjective assessments in lighting research using virtual reality. According to the review results, the investigations aimed at using immersive virtual reality for lighting can mainly be divided into three groups: (i) comparison between virtual and physical environments, (ii) analysis of different lighting scenarios, and (iii) investigation of users' interaction with the virtual model. On the one hand, the results show that immersive virtual reality is a useful tool for research and design in lighting. On the other hand, they highlight the limitations that still need to be overcome. Finally, the main findings and gaps concerning the subjective assessment were listed.

Being able to hear objects in an environment, for example using echolocation, is a challenging task. The main goal of the current work is to use virtual environments (VEs) to train novice users to navigate using echolocation. Previous studies have shown that musicians are able to differentiate sound pulses from reflections. This paper presents design patterns for VE simulators for both training and testing procedures, while classifying users' navigation strategies in the VE. Moreover, the paper presents features that increase users' performance in VEs. We report the findings of two user studies: a pilot test that helped improve the sonic interaction design, and a primary study exposing participants to a spatial orientation task during four conditions which were early reflections (RF), late reverberation (RV), early reflections-reverberation (RR) and visual stimuli (V). The latter study allowed us to identify navigation strategies among the users. Some users (10/26) reported an ability to create spatial cognitive maps during the test with auditory echoes, which may explain why this group performed better than the remaining participants in the RR condition.

Augmented Reality (AR) has the potential to help drivers become aware of invisible hazards through an Augmented Reality Head-Up Display (AR-HUD). However, this issue is still underexplored. To address it, a novel warning system for invisible dangers in AR-HUD user interfaces has been designed as a carrier for agents' cognitive information to enhance driver perception. This design was created by using a team cooperation perception model that combined the perception cycle of a human driver with a computational agent. Furthermore, user experiments were conducted to investigate the impact of this design on safe driving in two typical scenarios. The experimental results showed that this design can significantly improve drivers' situation awareness and reaction time in both human-driving and auto-pilot modes, and enhance human drivers' trust in the auto-pilot system. The model and design can be generalized to more AR-HUD scenarios requiring human-machine perception and cognitive cooperation.

The proliferation of high resolution and affordable virtual reality (VR) headsets is quickly making room-scale VR experiences available in our homes. Most VR experiences strive to achieve complete immersion by creating a disconnect from the real world. However, due to the lack of a standardized notification management system and minimal context awareness in VR, an immersed user may face certain situations such as missing an important phone call (digital scenario), tripping over wandering pets (physical scenario), or losing track of time (temporal scenario). In this paper, we present the results of 1) a survey across 61 VR users to understand common interruptions and scenarios that would benefit from some form of notifications; 2) a design exercise with VR professionals to explore possible notification methods; and 3) an empirical study on the noticeability and perception of 5 different VR interruption scenarios across 6 modality combinations (e.g., audio, visual, haptic, audio + haptic, visual + haptic, and audio + visual) implemented in Unity and presented using the HTC Vive headset. Finally, we combine key learnings from each of these steps along with participant feedback to present a set of observations and recommendations for notification design in VR.

This study employed multimodal learning analytics methods to evaluate different virtual reality (VR) interfaces, exploring their impact on the learning experience of cultural heritage. We recorded and analyzed the participants' learning behavior, self-reported perceptions from questionnaires' responses, electroencephalogram (EE(;) signals, and visual fatigue. Preliminary results suggested that VR interfaces with more modules per scene led to higher efficiency of use, although more modules did not improve viewing experience. This study provides insights for immersive interface design in cultural heritage learning.

In the mixed reality (MR) environment, the task of target motion perception is usually undertaken by vision. This approach suffers from poor discrimination and high cognitive load when the tasks are complex. This cannot meet the needs of the air traffic control field for rapid capture and precise positioning of the dynamic targets in the air. Based on this problem, we conducted a multimodal optimization study on target motion perception judgment by controlling the hand tactile sensor to achieve the use of tactile sensation to assist vision in MR environment. This allows it to adapt to the requirements of future development-led interactive tasks under the mixed reality holographic aviation tower. Motion perception tasks are usually divided into urgency sensing for multiple targets and precise position tracking for single targets according to the number of targets and task division. Therefore, in this paper, we designed experiments to investigate the correlation between tactile intensity-velocity correspondence and target urgency, and the correlation between the PRS (position, rhythm, sequence) tactile indication scheme and position tracking. We also evaluated it through comprehensive experiment. We obtained the following conclusions: (1) high, higher, medium, lower, and low tactile intensities would bias human visual cognitive induction to fast, faster, medium, slower, and slow motion targets. Additionally, this correspondence can significantly improve the efficiency of the participants' judgment of target urgency; (2) under the PRS tactile indication scheme, position-based rhythm and sequence cues can improve the judgment effect of human tracking target dynamic position, and the effect of adding rhythm cues is better. However, when adding rhythm and sequence cues at the same time, it can cause clutter; (3) tactile assisted vision has a good improvement effect on the comprehensive perception of dynamic target movement. The above findings are useful for the study of target motion perception in MR environments and provide a theoretical basis for subsequent research on the cognitive mechanism and quantitative of tactile indication in MR environment.

Surgeon-to-computer interaction difficulties in using virtual reality (VR)-guided surgical environments arise from disorientation, insufficient depth information, and delegation of view control. This study focuses on optimizing information delivery for VR-guided beating heart surgery. Initial human factors evaluation and participatory design has provided insight for developing an effective surgeon-controlled interface for VR-guided cardiac interventions. We discuss the motivation for and development of three interface prototypes as well as the methodology used to measure the effect of these novel techniques on user performance and workload.

As a new type of Virtual Reality (VR) headset, VR glasses rise rapidly in a number of areas. It's essential to understand the importance of user experience (UX) on VR glasses design. This study aimed to develop questionnaires for evaluating VR glasses' UX, as well as to investigate the relationship between various UX variables. With using lab-based usability tests, this study analyzed participants' self-reports and performance based on testing eight VR glasses and seven mobile applications. A nine-item questionnaire and a ten-item questionnaire were successfully developed to measure VR glasses systems' UX quality in terms of hardware and application, respectively. Within a proposed UX evaluation framework, the perceived UX quality relative to VR glasses hardware emerged as a core predictor in predicting interactive operation performance, whereas the application UX perception was a significant predictor of motion sickness.

In a future of pervasive augmented reality (AR), AR systems will need to be able to efficiently draw or guide the attention of the user to visual points of interest in their physical-virtual environment. Since AR imagery is overlaid on top of the user's view of their physical environment, these attention guidance techniques must not only compete with other virtual imagery, but also with distracting or attention-grabbing features in the user's physical environment. Because of the wide range of physical-virtual environments that pervasive AR users will find themselves in, it is difficult to design visual cues that "pop out" to the user without performing a visual analysis of the user's environment, and changing the appearance of the cue to stand out from its surroundings. In this article, we present an initial investigation into the potential uses of dichoptic visual cues for optical see-through AR displays, specifically cues that involve having a difference in hue, saturation, or value between the user's eyes. These types of cues have been shown to be preattentively processed by the user when presented on other stereoscopic displays, and may also be an effective method of drawing user attention on optical see-through AR displays. We present two user studies: one that evaluates the saliency of dichoptic visual cues on optical see-through displays, and one that evaluates their subjective qualities. Our results suggest that hue-based dichoptic cues or "Forbidden Colors" may be particularly effective for these purposes, achieving significantly lower error rates in a pop out task compared to value-based and saturation-based cues.

This paper describes a method for creating virtual textures without force feedback by using a simple motion sensor and a single vibrotactile actuator. It is based on wavetable synthesis driven by the user's hand movements. The output of the synthesis is rendered with the tactile actuator attached in a hand-held box together with the motion sensor. The method provides a solution for creating tangible properties for virtual objects which can be explored by pointing at them with the sensor-actuator device. The study introduces 12 virtual textures which were based on three different envelope ridge lengths, two spatial densities, and were either regularly or irregularly organized. To evaluate the role of each design parameter in the perception of the texture, a series of experiments was conducted. The perceived similarity was assessed in a pairwise comparison test and the outcome was analyzed by using multidimensional scaling. The analysis revealed that envelope ridge length and spatial density were distinguishable design parameters while regularity was not. The textures were also rated according to five attribute scales previously determined in the pilot experiment. The results show that ridge length and spatial density influence perceived roughness and flatness similarly as with real textures.

Virtual presence describes a users' perception of a virtual reality (VR) environment (VRE), specifically, of their involvement (sense of control within a virtual environment with minimal distractions) and immersion (multi-input sensory engagement providing apparent realism of objects and interactions). In education, virtual presence is a significant construct as highly immersive VREs have been linked to users reporting memorable and exciting teaching experiences. Prior research has described that adults and children report different levels of presence when subjected to identical VREs, suggesting cognition may play some role in users' perceptions of presence. According to Piaget, concrete operational development is a watershed moment when adolescents develop the ability to understand abstract concepts and make assessments what is and is not reality. This period in cognitive development may influence children's and adolescents' perceptions of presence. This is an exploratory study of seventy-five 6th-grade and seventy-six 9th-grade students who participated in an instructional module about cardiac anatomy and physiology using a 3-D, haptic-enabled, VR technology. When surveyed on their perceptions of virtual presence, there were no reported differences between grade levels. When assessed using a Piagetian inventory of cognitive development, the analyses indicated that the sixth-grade students' understanding of spatial rotation and angular geometry was positively correlated with the reported perceived control and negatively correlated with distraction. This study suggests that the spatial acuity of younger learners plays an important role when using VR technologies for science learning. This research raises questions about the relevance of users' cognitive development when using emergent VR technologies in the K-12 science classroom.

We propose and evaluate novel pseudo-haptic techniques to display mass and mass distribution for proxy-based object manipulation in virtual reality. These techniques are specifically designed to generate haptic effects during the object's rotation. They rely on manipulating the mapping between visual cues of motion and kinesthetic cues of force to generate a sense of heaviness, which alters the perception of the object's mass-related properties without changing the physical proxy. First we present a technique to display an object's mass by scaling its rotational motion relative to its mass. A psycho-physical experiment demonstrates that this technique effectively generates correct perceptions of relative mass between two virtual objects. We then present two pseudo-haptic techniques designed to display an object's mass distribution. One of them relies on manipulating the pivot point of rotation, while the other adjusts rotational motion based on the real-time dynamics of the moving object. An empirical study shows that both techniques can influence perception of mass distribution, with the second technique being significantly more effective.

Whether and when should we show data in 3D is an on-going debate in communities conducting visualization research. A strong opposition exists in the information visualization (Infovis) community, and seemingly unnecessary/unwarranted use of 3D, e.g., in plots, bar or pie charts, is heavily criticized. The scientific visualization (Scivis) community, on the other hand, is more supportive of the use of 3D as it allows 'seeing' invisible phenomena, or designing and printing things that are used in e.g., surgeries, educational settings etc. Geographic visualization (Geovis) stands between the Infovis and Scivis communities. In geographic information science, most visuo-spatial analyses have been sufficiently conducted in 2D or 2.5D, including analyses related to terrain and much of the urban phenomena. On the other hand, there has always been a strong interest in 3D, with similar motivations as in Scivis community. Among many types of 3D visualizations, a popular one that is exploited both for visual analysis and visualization is the highly realistic (geo) virtual environments. Such environments may be engaging and memorable for the viewers because they offer highly immersive experiences. However, it is not yet well-established if we should opt to show the data in 3D; and if yes, a) what type of 3D we should use, b) for what task types, and c) for whom. In this paper, we identify some of the central arguments for and against the use of 3D visualizations around these three considerations in a concise interdisciplinary literature review.

Concepts of mixed reality and virtual environments and their supporting technology are brought together and developed further. Continuous multi-sensory interaction and digital description put audiences into a narrative environment and unifies the emotion and the perception of informations. This paper proposes design possibilities that multi-sensory and multi-time-and-space interactions of information lead audiences into the narrative process. The perceptual environment will produce various information feedback based on audiences' behaviors, ultimately achieve unity in physiological emotions and perceptual behaviors and creating a new multi-dimensional perceptual experience space. This perceptual environment will get the audience more involved in the narration with the application of multi-media devices, and audiences will be more relaxed and free to participate in the spatial narrative.

Providing realistic haptic feedback of virtual objects is critical for immersive VR experience, and there have been many approaches to simulate haptic properties. Most of them, however, are limited to a narrow modulation range of simulated perception. To overcome this limitation, the current paper examines the effect of multisensory pseudo-haptic feedback that combines control-to-display (C/D) ratio manipulation and electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) on simulated weight perception. In two experiments, we independently manipulated the C/D ratio and EMS status and observed the effects on the absolute and difference thresholds of simulated weight perception. From the absolute thresholds results, we specify the effective range of C/D ratio that can successfully induce weight perception and show that the range can be more than twice widened by multisensory pseudo-haptic feedback. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the sensitivity to weight difference increases as the standard C/D ratio decreases from the difference thresholds results, which provides practical design guidelines for assigning multiple levels of weight to virtual objects. This study contributes to understanding the psychological effects of multisensory pseudo-haptic feedback on simulated weight perception in virtual reality.

We set out to understand the visual attention and perception of virtual humans in individuals vulnerable to paranoia in a VR eye-tracking study. In a factorial between-groups design, 122 individuals with elevated paranoia experienced a virtual lift ride with virtual humans that varied in facial animation (static or animated) and expression (neutral or positive). Facial animation (p = 0.053) led to a significant reduction in co-presence. Positive expressions (p-adj = 0.046) significantly decreased the visual attention to virtual humans when their faces were static. Our results indicate that virtual human programming could influence user perception and visual behaviours for people with mistrust.

This research explores augmented perception by investigating the effects of spatial scale manipulation in Virtual Reality (VR) to simulate multiple levels of virtual eye height (EH) and virtual interpupillary distance (IPD) of the VR users in the design context. We have developed a multiscale VR system for design applications, which supports a dynamic scaling of the VR user's EH and IPD to simulate different perspectives of multiple user's groups such as children or persons with disabilities. We strongly believe that VR can improve the empathy of VR users toward the individual sharing or simulating the experience. We conducted a user study comprising two within-subjects designed experiments for design-related tasks with seventeen participants who took on a designer's role. In the first experiment, the participants performed hazards identification and risks assessment tasks in a virtual environment (VE) while experiencing four different end-user perspectives: a two-year-old child, an eight-year-old child, an adult, and an adult in a wheelchair. We hypothesized that experiencing different perspectives would lead to different design outcomes and found significant differences in the perceived level of risks, the number of identified hazards, and the average height of hazards found. The second experiment had the participants scale six virtual chairs to a suitable scale for different target end-user groups. The participants experienced three perspectives: a two-year-old child, an eight-year-old child, and an adult. We found that when the designer's perspective matched that of the intended end-user of the product, it yielded significantly lower variance among the designs across participants and more precise scales suitable for the end-user. We also found that the EH and IPD positively correlate with the resulting scales. The key contribution of this work is the evidence to support that spatial scale manipulation of EH and IPD could be a critical tool in the design process to improve the designer's empathy by allowing them to experience the end-user perspectives. This could influence their design, making a safer or functionally suitable design for various end-user groups with different needs.

With a people-oriented principle, contemporary architectural design regards the users' spiritual and emotional satisfaction as fundamental needs. However, it was tough for designers to collect and quantify the users' accurate perception of a design scheme in the past. This research aims to propose a method incorporating virtual reality (VR) and sensors, and wearable technology to pre-evaluate the impact of spatial schemes on user experience. Specifically, it collected users' physiological signals to detect emotions and eye-tracking data to understand visual attention during their roaming in a VR environment. An empirical design scheme for the International School of Design's outdoor spaces in Harbin Institute of Technology was adopted as a study case. For this purpose, multiple groups of contrast schemes were established in VR for users to experience. Participants' physiological signals were collected and analyzed using the paired-samples T-test method. Subjective questionnaire data were also collected to assist in the verification of objective physiological data. The results showed that designers could evaluate the experience of the designs by comparing user reactions through analysis of physiological signals. Simultaneously, this evaluation method explores a feasible way for designers to promote architecture designs to be more humanized and scientific.

In this article, we present the design and development process of the robot voice assistant in Virtual Reality, created within the NUX project which aims at exploring the potential of voice interaction in VR. For the experiments, the testing environment was prepared in two variants: with graphical communication and with voice communication with an assistant. The environment is designed as a futuristic office on the space station and it is implemented in Unreal Engine 4. The verbal and nonverbal behavior of the assistant and the interactions chains were designed and optimized in 3 iterations and investigated using a mix of qualitative and quantitative methods (N=28). The impact of the features of the assistant on the perception and attitudes of the users and the resulting design decisions are discussed.

Amidst the evolving landscape where cyber and physical realms seamlessly intertwine, smishing (SMS phishing) emerges as a sophisticated security threat. This paper introduces a novel crossdevice solution for detecting smishing attacks in augmented reality (AR) environments. Our method uses AR glasses to enhance user perception and interaction by analyzing images of URLs displayed across various devices, including smartphones, laptops, and digital displays. This approach aligns with the "Seamless Reality" concept, integrating physical and cyber space perception, cognition, and interaction. We detail the development of a prototype system and present findings from a user study that evaluates its effectiveness in a diverse range of AR settings. Our results underscore the potential of AR technologies in smishing detection, contributing to a safer interaction between virtual and real-world elements. The study also delves into aspects of AR display systems, user interface design, and the integration of haptic feedback, offering insights into the broader implications for seamless AR experiences.

This study proposes a motor design and presentation method for presenting virtual force sensation in the three-dimensional direction. Various grasping methods and device performances need to be considered in order to present virtual force perception in three-dimensional directions. However, commercially available motors do not allow changing parameters such as the surface magnetic flux density of the magnets inside and the number of turns of the coils, and the shape of the motor affects the design of the device. Therefore, we created motors with the same amplitude and shape for each device. By grasping that motor with the side of the fingertip, the directional presentation of virtual force sensation in the vertical direction was possible, showing its potential for 3D directional presentation.

Virtual environments are becoming more commonly used in urban planning and the construction industry. In this paper, we investigate whether exploring a 3D model of a factory site can identify design problems related to human perception, such as exposing users to heights without sufficient protection. Problems of height and space are not easily identified during the normal design process, and are costly to correct. We present a user study (n = 30) in which three different presentation formats, (1) CAVE, (2) Head Mounted Display (HMD), and (3) monitor display, are compared as methods to explore a virtual factory site. Our results indicate that HMD provides the most immersive experience and e. g. that the CAVE approach is problematic in cases where detailed navigation is required. We also identify that the use of heart rate monitoring when exploring the virtual environment can provide a useful indication of possible issues related to perceptions of the design.

During our daily displacements, we should consider the individuals advancing toward us in order to avoid a possible collision with our congeneric. We developed an experimental design in a virtual immersion room, which allows us to evaluate human capacities for avoiding collisions with other people. In addition, the design allows participants to interact naturally inside this immersive virtual reality setup when a pedestrian is moving toward them, creating a possible risk of collision. Results suggest that the performance is associated with visual and motor capacities and could be adjusted by cognitive social perception.

The purpose of this research is to synthesize and transform real world physical environments (PE) into a CAVE automatic virtual reality system (CAVE) by using three-dimensional (3D) models of cultural and historical artifacts. 3D models are often used in many applications including visualizations and digital preservation. Virtual reality is used to improve perception and sensation and to better understand products and environments for studying human factors and behaviors. As a pilot study, we developed and prototyped a customizable 3D physical environment using historical data and archives into an interactive CAVE virtual reality (VR) system. We then conducted a study of user preferences using pretest and post-test questionnaires of the CAVE versus paper-based artifacts.

For software applications with a significant level of user involvement, the traditional concept of usability has evolved into the more complex idea of user experience, which also covers emotional, cognitive or physical responses. In virtual reality, user experience also depends on the user perception related to some peculiarities of immersive environments, where also the devices employed for user interaction play a determinant role. This has led to the design of the Presence Questionnaire (PQ) for the evaluation of the effectiveness of virtual environments. This work analyzes the effects of two different interaction modalities on usability and sense of presence: in particular, the Myo armband, a gesture-based device for touchless interaction, is compared with the Vive handheld controller bundled with the HTC Vive headset. A total of 84 subjects were recruited to test the virtual environment and asked them to fill in a questionnaire obtained by combining the Usability Metric for User eXperience (UMUX) questionnaire, the System Usability Scale (SUS) and the presence questionnaire (PQ), which was specifically designed for virtual environments. A comparison between the scores obtained for the two interaction modalities revealed which questionnaire items are significantly influenced by the input interface and deduce some insights about the consequences on human factors.

With the rise in accessibility of consumer-grade virtual reality headsets, social virtual reality applications have now caught widespread attention. One's anticipation for the virtual world is for it to be lively with characters. However, current technology falls short of generating intelligent virtual agents, thus creating a densely-populated environment with which one could have a variety of interactions is out of reach. This position paper introduces a takeover system which enables a single actor to seamlessly take over control of multiple virtual characters in a social virtual reality environment. In our experiments, we expect our system to enhance the perceived social presence of the scene and to uncover the difference in perception regarding computer-driven agents and human controlled avatars when interacting with multiple characters in the same environment.

The advent of virtual reality technology has provided a new approach for assessing and training cognitive processing ability, with the design of simulations used to replicate real events in everyday lives. To better understand how head mounted displays/fiat screen displays (HMDs/FSDs) and differences in the individuals who use them affect cognitive performance and the use of VR systems, our research group created the Stroop task-embedded virtual reality driving system (STEVRDS) and conducted a 2 x 2 between-group factorial design experiment among college students. The study examined the effects of HMDs and FSDs that differ in monovision/stereovision and field of view, the impact of gender (males vs. females) on users' performances in virtual driving and Stroop trials, and users' psychophysiological responses while using the system. The participants' subjective perceptions toward STEVRDS were also assessed to support the analyses/interpretations of cognitive performance, as well as provide empirical data relating to user experiences. The statistical analyses showed both main and interaction effects of HMDs/FSDs and gender on task performance, psychophysiological responses, and user evaluations of the system. The psychophysiological patterns exhibited during the use of STEVRDS further extended the findings. Overall, our results were comparable with cognitive phenomena reported in other studies/in real-life experiences or explained by logical reasoning, which suggests that the design/development of the STEVRDS is suitable for cognitive assessment/training. Practical implications are discussed for the application of HMDs and FSDs in evaluating and enhancing cognitive processing ability and the need for specific tailoring for male and female users.

Shared automated mobility on-demand (SAMOD) might be an efficient and convenient mode of transportation in the future. The new concept of a virtual stop (vStop) will coordinate the road users during its dynamic pick-up scenarios. Users need to walk to the pick-up locations in order to board the automated shuttle bus (ASB). Here, users want to find the location, which has no references in the real world, effortlessly. Then, users desire trouble-free identification of the ASB. This doctoral research project aims at designing a human-machine interface (HMI) for vStops with methods of user-centered design. The HMI displays important information in relation to the road environment using augmented reality (AR). This provides users with high rates of user experience, high rates of acceptance and low rates of cognitive workload when solving the tasks. First results show the positive perception of a vStop HMI and the advantages of AR for the selected use case. The doctoral research contributes to widespread deployment of SAMOD in the future and to the change towards more sustainable mobility solutions.

Time perception is proven to be influenced by various factors, yet integrating these factors into a cohesive experience remains challenging. Our research explores creating a virtual environment where participants engage in short-term activities while experiencing a lengthened subjective sense of time. In the pilot study, we identified items expected to slow down subjective time perception. Next, in the user study, we create virtual environments consisting of their decision of 'liking' and 'selection' to determine their mental measurements and time perception. The result showed that participants 'liking' and 'selection' of items in the VE influenced their pleasure and focus. However, these factors did not significantly alter their perception of time. This finding underscores the intricacy involved in designing time-dilating VEs. Our next step will focus on designing a more nuanced approach to filtering and integrating environmental elements to manipulate time perception preciously.

Technologies such as Mobile Augmented Reality (MAR), Mobile Virtual Reality (MVR), along with machine learning and artificial Intelligence have nowadays becoming more popular also in educational context. These technologies are relatively new in the educational context which are associated with lots of ambiguity about the applicability as an alternative educational medium. The focus of this paper is evaluating the user experience of a MVR application in educational context, not the concept design and the application development process. However, for the sake of this study, we made a sample MVR application to conduct the assessment of students' feelings and emotions. To concentrate on the MVR user experience and to avoid any ambiguity in the content, the application as to be simple and familiar to students. Our user study and usability test reveal that students were not pleased to use the application for more than 5-10 minutes and the majority complain about dizziness after the experiment. Besides the physical cybersickness such as nausea and dizziness, we identified also the test user feels anxiety and stresses during the test. Finally based on our results we provide recommendation and suggestion for the potential use of MVR in education. This paper would help educational institutions in designing their Mobile Virtual Reality based courses.

Virtual Reality is used in design for both supporting design reviews and interacting with products being designed. The interactions Virtual Reality enables are often found engaging and this might affect product evaluation, as experiencing a virtual environment can be the prevalent element of an experience. This paper investigated to what extent product evaluations are affected by the sense of presence enabled by Virtual Reality, the duration of interactions with the whole products and its features, and the product information provided after exposure to the virtual environment. These effects were tested through an experiment involving the virtual tour of a tiny house whose interior was extracted through 360 degrees images, which represents an element of originality of the paper, followed by administering participants informative stimuli. All these phases were supported by eye-tracking, also thanks to the use equipment combining Virtual Reality and eye-tracking, hitherto poorly used in design research, in the first part of the experiment. Based on the experiment results, the effects studied were limited to the gazing of few design elements on some product evaluation dimensions. These findings suggest that Virtual Reality can provide a strong product perception irrespective of sense of presence and other phenomena taking place during product interaction. This is particularly stressed by the failure of informative stimuli to make experiment participants modify the initial evaluations made just after the virtual tour. Overall, the outcomes of this study encourage the use of Virtual Reality for design interaction tasks, especially in relation to environments and building interiors.

Realistic 3D geovisualization is necessary to facilitate the perception of a landscape designer in relation to the environment, which is a determining factor in decision-making in landscape planning and management. In the field of landscape design teaching learning environments, game engines can offer an immersive 3D geovisualization mode through Virtual Reality technology, which, in addition, can be motivating for the student. Game engines allow designing the scenarios where videogames take place, but game engines can also be used for geovisualization tasks in landscape design teaching environments. In this article, we present the landscape workshop, using a Unity 3D game engine. Twenty-five architect students performed landscape design tasks and worked with an interactive 3D geovisualization low-immersive desktop screen environment. The perception of the 3D environment during geovisualization was analyzed through the Questionnaire on User eXperience in Immersive Virtual Environments, and the motivational factor with the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory. Results showed a high perception of the 3D environment during geovisualization in the nine subcategories (sense of presence, engagement, immersion, flow, usability, emotion, judgment, experience consequence, and technology adoption) analyzed. The game engine-based teaching approach carried out has been motivating for students, with values over 5 (in a 1-7 Likert scale) in the five subscales considered.

We present AiRType for AR/VR HMDs that enables text entry through bare hands for more natural perception. The hand models in the virtual environment mirror hand movements of the user and user targets and selects the keys via hand models. AiRType fully leverages the additional dimension without restraining the interaction space by users' arm lengths. It can be attached to anywhere and can be scaled freely. We evaluated and compared AiRType with the baseline the built-in keyboard of Magic Leap 1. AiRType shows 27% decrease in the error rate, 3.3% increase in characterper-second, and 9.4% increase in user satisfaction.

Because the resolution of see-through displays is lower than the resolution of the human eye, perception of AR schemes is complicated in large distances. To discover, how design issues of perception correlate with presentation in large distances, we developed three different variants of arrow-based route guidance systems. With a large-scale Head-Up Display having a large focal depth, we tested the variants under different conditions on perception and interpretability.

According to social psychological models, the presence of another person or even a virtual character in stressful situations can have stress-reducing effects. Thereby, the outcome can depend on the congruency between one's mood and the perceived mood of the other person. This dependence guides the design of VR applications for stress reduction, which use different virtual companion designs depending on the emotional state of individual users. This paper describes an ongoing design and development process towards such an emotionally supportive companion and shares initial results concerning the perception and stress-reducing effects of positively- and negatively-minded companions.

It is challenging to provide users with a haptic weight sensation of virtual objects in VR since current consumer VR controllers and software-based approaches such as pseudo-haptics cannot render appropriate haptic stimuli. To overcome these limitations, we developed a haptic VR controller named Triggermuscle that adjusts its trigger resistance according to the weight of a virtual object. Therefore, users need to adapt their index finger force to grab objects of different virtual weights. Dynamic and continuous adjustment is enabled by a spring mechanism inside the casing of an HTC Vive controller. In two user studies, we explored the effect on weight perception and found large differences between participants for sensing change in trigger resistance and thus for discriminating virtual weights. The variations were easily distinguished and associated with weight by some participants while others did not notice them at all. We discuss possible limitations, confounding factors, how to overcome them in future research and the pros and cons of this novel technology.

Mediated reality systems introduce the possibility to alter users' perception of the surrounding environment by adding or removing information. These particular innovative features made this technology attractive for several adjacent fields. However, despite their direct impact on the presentation of information, mediated reality systems are still poorly explored by information designers. Over the years, information design researchers have investigated and proposed tools and practices when planning information for different platforms and contexts. With respect to technical operations, visual instructions are very effective to convey information, and therefore a great opportunity for technology aided operations. This work establishes a dialogue between information design and mediated reality systems, and introduces some of the several concerns of this joint context. Based on correlated research, we identify general principles, challenges and opportunities for mediated reality applications, and for information designers willing to use them. Finally, we also introduce an early-stage system for technical operations as an opportunity to take further lessons and establish detailed recommendations.

Object Manipulation is a fundamental interaction in virtual reality (VR). The efficiency and accuracy of object manipulation are important to provide immersion to users. We propose a manipulation method with adaptive gains to improve the efficiency and accuracy of object manipulation in VR applications. First, we introduce manipulation gains. We then design an experiment to collect user behavior during manipulation to determine fitting functions for calculating manipulation gain. At last, we design a user study to evaluate the performance of our distant object manipulation method with adaptive gains. The results show that, compared with the state of the art methods, our method has a significant improvement in the completion time, and the manipulation accuracy of the tasks. Moreover, our method significantly increases usability and reduces task load.

Hand redirection is a visuo-haptic illusion offering rich haptic feedback in Virtual Reality while using a limited number of physical objects. This technique relies on a redirection function which determines the virtual hand position depending on the physical hand position. In this paper, we extend the design space of the Hand-redirection technique by generalizing this redirection function. A user study compares 6 redirection functions. Our results suggest that the redirection function does not deteriorate the illusion offering more flexibility and control to designer over the hand trajectory and avoid collisions.

This study mainly examines the contribution of the virtual reality environment to architectural education. The primary aim of the study was to investigate the theoretical possibilities of VR technology in an interactive and participatory educational environment that would allow students to examine architectural components and inter-component relationships. A group of 160 volunteers participated in the study, with participants asked to design villas in both natural (non-VR) and virtual reality (VR) environments within a specific period. Designs mild, in both environments (VR and non-VR) were evaluated by a team of five experts (jurors). For the evaluation, jurors wore eye-tracking devices and were asked to comment on the designs in both environments. In the virtual reality environment designs, the following categories showed significant differences over the drawings in a natural environment: functionality, aesthetics, user perception of space and internal physical quality (light quality), indicating that the virtual reality designs were examined more closely by the jurors than were those in the natural environment. This study will contribute to design discipline if virtual reality systems are adopted in architecture education.

The work presented in this paper outlines a design framework for flexibly automated manufacturing cells in a Virtual Reality environment. Design encompassing structure/configuration and control/operation aspects of manufacturing cells is supported through different levels of analysis. The cornerstone is semantic models that are constructed for stereotypical manufacturing cell objects and their relations but are extensible for new ones. VRML 3D models of these objects are created and introduced into the virtual world. Core methods are developed for object functional control. A major class of methods at object level refers to trivial and non-trivial kinematics for stereotypical objects such as robots, machine tools and conveyors. The main method at cell level pertains to controlling interactions among different manufacturing tasks and is based on definition of control-interpreted Petri Nets at two levels of detail: generic nets, which are less detailed and directly derive from semantic models, and specific nets, which add further detail that cannot be included in a practical way in the semantic nets. Furthermore, special attention is directed to the user within the virtual environment, by providing mostly visual tools that enhance user perception as well as information and manipulation tools that facilitate interaction with the virtual manufacturing cell being designed. The virtual environment was developed from scratch using relatively high-level 3D graphics development tools and open libraries and is thus amenable to extensions.

Artifacts in an environment afford to their observers utility and function directly through specific object characteristics (e.g., mediums, surfaces, substances). Virtual environments (VEs) similarly seek to afford specific utility to their users, whether it is for training, education, or entertainment, thus it seems natural to consider basing VE designs on affordances. Such affordance-based design should yield significant benefits by providing designs that behave in more understandable and intuitive manners. These designs should be easier to learn, adapt better to user tasks, and frustrate users less by allowing use of the same skills acquired via real-world interactions. In order to realize affordance-based VE designs, the types of appropriate affordances and means of realizing these affordances must be identified. Currently, however, affordances lack a theoretical and operational basis for such application. The present paper suggests functions that affordances should support and provides a conceptual model for realizing affordances based on sensory-stimuli-substitution schemes.

We propose using a single slip tactile pixel on virtual reality controllers to produce sensations of finger sliding and textures. When a user moves the controller on a virtual surface, we add a slip opposite to the movement, creating the illusion of a finger that is sliding on the surface, while varying the slip feedback changes in lateral forces on the fingertip. When coupled with hand motion the lateral forces can be used to create perceptions of artificial textures. RollingStone has been implemented as a prototype VR controller consisting of a ball-based slip display positioned under the user's fingertip. Within the slip display, a pair of motors actuates the ball, which is capable of generating both short- and long-term two-degree-of-freedom slip feedback. An exploratory study was conducted to ensure that changing the relative motion between the finger and the ball could alter the perceptions conveying the properties of a texture. The following two perception-based studies examined the minimum changes in speed of slip and angle of slip that are detectable by users. The results help us to design haptic patterns as well as our prototype applications. Finally, our preliminary user evaluation indicates that participants welcomed RollingStone as a useful addition to the range of VR controllers.

In the development of a new product, the design team must describe the expected effects of the final products to potential users and stakeholders. However, existing prototyping tools can only present a product imperfectly, due to limitations at different levels. Specifically, the physical product model, which may be the product of 3D printing, could lack a visual interface; the presentation of the product through modeling software such as Rhinoceros 3D does not provide good realistic tactile perception; or the interface platforms, such as Axure RP, used to display the interactive effects differ from those to be used in the actual operation. Thus, we present the VPModel, a high-fidelity prototyping tool, able to integrate multiple prototyping methods simultaneously. It combines a touchable 3D-printed product model (3DPM) and a corresponding visualized virtual model, and the interactive interfaces are rendered synchronously in a mixed-reality device. Through the tangible, visual, and interactive demonstration, designers and normal users can each obtain a similar experience to the experience of the finished product. Furthermore, the VPModel also enhances design practices by enabling comparisons between modular models. However, the implementation of this system is a challenging task, which subsumes several fundamental problems as sub-tasks: object detection, real-time matching, hand-gesture detection and action recognition. To achieve the expected goals of the VPModel, this system uses physical hardware (a Microsoft MR HoloLens headset, a Leap Motion Controller, and a 3D printer) and existing machine learning algorithms. To evaluate our VPModel, we report the user experience of 16 participants, evaluated using a closed-ended questionnaire survey, a quantitative analysis of task performance, and a qualitative analysis of open-ended interviews. The results show a significant improvement in realism and enjoyment using the VPModel over the two traditional camera prototype approaches. In summary, the VPModel can be used to support design strategy and to convey design concepts fully and efficiently, which indicates a potential use for the VPModel in shortening product development cycles and reducing communication costs.

Presenting points of interest in the environment by means of audio augmented reality offers benefits compared with traditional visual augmented reality and map-based approaches. However, presentation of distant virtual sound sources is problematic. This study looks at combining well-known auditory distance cues to convey the distance of points of interest. The results indicate that although the provided cues are intuitively mapped to relatively short distances, users can with only little training learn to map these cues to larger distances.

The purpose of this study was to investigate future teachers experiences and perceptions of using a virtual reality game for elementary math education. The virtual reality game was designed and developed to integrate a musical activity (beat-making) into the math learning of fractions. Five math education major students participated in this study. Participants perceptions, experiences, and interactions regarding the game were examined through observation, screen recording, survey, and interviews. A thematic analysis found three major themes: Transformative presentation of fractions via musical concepts, integration of music into math to enhance learner motivation, and learning-constructive game design features. The findings showed that the concept of fractions is effectively represented via beat-making in the virtual reality game. The study also illustrated that musical term clarification and adaptive, haptic manipulation are salient design features that influence game-based learning.

A crucial aspect when interacting in augmented reality (AR) scenarios is having a stable and coherent perception of the virtual contents overlaid on the real world. This is particularly challenging when the task in the AR environments involves walking onto virtual paths on the floor. In this paper, we present two experiments, conducted in both real-world and cluttered conditions and in a laboratory setup, in which non-trained people were asked to play with a virtual hopscotch. We perform both a qualitative evaluation, by means of a self-assessment questionnaire, and quantitative measures, by capturing the 3D positions of the observers, which show errors in the perception of the hopscotchs layout. The obtained results suggest us that besides the known issues of pose estimation, also the mismatch between the intrinsic parameters of the mobile camera and the ones of the observer eyes could be investigated and taken into account to design effective AR systems.

Training and planning for neurosurgeries necessitate many requirements from junior neurosurgeons, including perceptual capacities. An effective method of deliberate training is to replicate the required procedures using neurosurgical simulation tools and visualizing a three-dimensional (3D) workspace. However, Augmented Reality (AR) neurosurgical simulators become obsolete for a variety of reasons, including users' distance underestimation. Few investigations have been conducted for improving users' depth perception in AR systems with perceptual motion cues through neurosurgical simulation tools for planning aid purposes. In this poster, we are reporting a user study about whether head motion and perceptual motion cues have any an influence on users' depth perception.

The integration of large language models and mixed reality technologies has enabled users to engage in free-form conversations with virtual agents across different "realities". However, if and how the agent's visual representation, especially when combined with mixed reality environments, will affect the conversation content or user experience is not yet fully understood. In this work, we design and conduct a user study involving two types of visual representations (a human avatar and a symbolic avatar) and two mixed reality environments (virtual reality and augmented reality), facilitating a free-form conversation experience with GPT-3 powered agents. We found evidence that the use of virtual or augmented realities can influence conversation content. Users chatting with avatars in virtual reality made significantly more references to the location or the space, suggesting they tended to perceive conversations as occurring in the agent's space, whereas the physical AR environment was perhaps more perceived as the user's space. Conversations with the human avatar improve user recall of the conversation, even though there is no evidence of increased information extracted during the conversation. These observations and our analysis of post-study questionnaires suggest that human avatars can positively impact user memory and experience. We hope our findings and the open-source implementation will help facilitate future research on free-form conversational agents in mixed reality.

Spatial analysis of floor plans is typically constrained to blueprints. We investigate how a person's perception of space in different visual modes relates to common computational spatial measures for environment designs. The three spatial measures, grounded in Space-Syntax analysis, are used to capture different aspects of a design such as visibility, accessibility, and organization. We perform two studies involving novice users and the experts. First, we conduct a perceptual study to find out how novice users perceive these spatial measures when exploring and environment design using different visual modes including 2D blueprints, 3D first-person view, and room-scale virtual reality. A correlation analysis between the users' perceptual ratings and the spatial measures indicates that virtual reality is the most effective of the three methods. We conclude that virtual reality provides the requisite fidelity needed to sufficiently capture subtle aspects of 3D space, needed to perceive accessibility, visibility, and organization of an environment. On the other hand, 2D blueprints and 3D first-person exploration often fail to convey the spatial measures. In the second study, experts are asked to evaluate and rank the design blueprints for each spatial measure. The expert observations are in strong agreement with the spatial measures for accessibility and organization, but not for visibility in some cases. This indicates that even experts have difficulty understanding spatial aspects of an architectural design from 2D blueprints alone.

Humans' thermal regulation and subjective perception of temperature is highly plastic and depends on the visual appearance of the surrounding environment. Previous work shows that an environment's color temperature affects the experienced temperature. As virtual reality (VR) enables visual immersion, recent work suggests that a VR scene's color temperature also affects experienced temperature. It is, however, unclear if an avatar's appearance also affects users' thermal perception and if a change in thermal perception even influences the body temperature. Therefore, we conducted a study with 32 participants performing a task in an ice or fire world while having ice or fire hands. We show that being in a fire world or having fire hands increases the perceived temperature. We even show that having fire hands decreases the hand temperature compared to having ice hands. We discuss the implications for the design of VR systems and future research directions.

The field of Sonification has led to a variety of projects aimed at conveying graphical information via audition. Most of these projects are aimed at specific domains or contexts, and few have studied general audio presentation techniques empirically. This paper details the results of a multipart study of user perception of selected audio stimuli as users are asked to interpret those stimuli as points in a generic Cartesian space. Results will be used in future work designing methods of portraying technical drawings such as flowcharts and UML via audio.

This paper describes an experimental software system that allows interfacing a virtual immersive environment with Computer Aided Engineering (CAE) open source software aiming for improving and simplifying design process and results evaluation. System includes a middleware to execute jobs on HPC architectures and to compare results of server-class processors with GPGPU hardware. The main innovation of the overall system is the possibility to setup the CAE job directly inside the virtual reality platform speeding-up the entire process. User evaluations on selected case studies show how the use of a virtual environment may enhance the perception of engineers ideas during the design process. In addition, the use of a system that allows reconfiguring and relaunching the job simplifies setup of job configuration. Results also show that HPC hardware based on GPGPU offers a perceivable speedup for problems with an high number of nodes.

Introduction: Since kinesthetic cues are not present in virtual environments, users have difficulty feeling the heaviness of virtual objects. To address this issue, pseudo-haptic approaches have been proposed to illusorily induce the weight of virtual objects through the user's visual sensory system.Methods: In this paper, we used two methods to induce the impression of virtual objects' heaviness. One relies on the direct modification of the control-display (C/D) ratio when lifting objects, and the other depends on controlling this ratio based on a velocity restriction. We innovatively measured each approach's efficiency by analyzing physical work as an objective metric. In addition, we used Borg CR10 to measure users' hand fatigue during the experimental phases.Results: Our findings are discussed in terms of individual lifting behavior in different pseudo-haptic methods. Furthermore, different virtual weight-lifting behaviors were compared to the same real-world weight-lifting behaviors.Discussion: According to our results, the direct control of the C/D ratio method provides virtual reality users with a more accurate weight perception than the velocity restriction one. Furthermore, with this first method, users' lifting behavior was closer to the behavior when lifting real objects.

A series of virtual reality (VR) sessions was developed to explore students' perceptions of the use of VR as a teaching intervention during lectures in an undergraduate taxation module. The study was based on the theoretical framework of the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) and the Educational Framework for immersive Learning (EFiL) and made use of a longitudinal multi-method research design approach. Data was gathered from 566 students over the academic year using three questionnaires which were statistically analyzed. Written reflections were also collected from students and these reflections were thematically analyzed. The results show that students were positive about participating in a VR teaching intervention before they had been exposed to VR in the classroom and that they remained positive throughout the academic year as the VR interventions were rolled out on three different occasions. Students' reflections were also overwhelmingly positive, and students believe that VR is an effective and innovative way to enhance learning. The contribution of this research can be found in its use of a longitudinal study to provide understanding of the perceptions of undergraduate taxation students of the use of VR.

Building on our previous work presented at the Eurographics GCH conference, this paper further explores the characteristics of an "authentic experience", developing a framework that can be applied to the development of XR and hybrid applications in the field of cultural heritage. While recognising the broader concept of authenticity, we have not focused on an in-depth analysis of it. Instead, we focus specifically on "authentic experiences". Here, we have extended the definition of authenticity beyond realism or sense of presence, proposing instead a multi-dimensional approach to engaging users cognitively, emotionally, and sensorially (the "Self" dimension) and, at the same time, including two other fundamental dimensions (the "Others" and the "World") intrinsically connected to the "Self". We have then further detailed these three dimensions, which are the pillars of the perception of authenticity, identifying their "components" and "elements". Finally, we transformed the elements into "actionable" design indications, setting the ground to further develop specific design (UI and UX) strategies for digital heritage and serious game applications.

Virtual reality (VR) has seen remarkable advancements, becoming more compact and feature-rich. Although VR has become immensely popular in the video game industry, its adoption in training, healthcare, and education has been relatively modest. The decreasing costs of VR technology make it increasingly accessible, making it an attractive alternative to expensive laboratory facilities, such as those required in engineering programs. This article describes the development of LABNICA, an immersive virtual reality application designed to enhance the teaching process in industrial instrumentation courses. Built with Unity3D and incorporating Meta Quest 2 technology, LABNICA allows users to interact with a virtual industrial environment that simulates the process of setting the parameters for the differential pressure transmitter, performing electrical connections, measuring voltages and currents, and manipulating tank valves. The students' perception of the tool was evaluated through a usability survey, which considered reference frameworks: 96.5% found the laboratory guide instructions clear, while 94.1% were satisfied with the application mechanics, user interface, and aesthetic design; 80% indicated that there is a need for some prior knowledge in instrumentation. Additionally, 95.3% considered the application convenient for learning industrial instrumentation, highlighting the need to implement virtual reality laboratories in other subjects.

Facial animation has reached a high level of photorealism. Skin is rendered with grain and translucency, wrinkles are accurate and dynamic. These recent visual improvements are not fully tested for their contribution to the perceived expressiveness of virtual characters. This paper presents a perceptual study assessing the impact of different rendering modes of expressive wrinkles on users' perception of facial expressions of basic and complex emotions. Our results suggest that realistic wrinkles increase agent's expressivity and user's preference, but not the recognition of emotion categories. This study was conducted using our real time facial animation platform that is designed for perceptive evaluations of affective interaction.

When designing universal design products or their interfaces, it is necessary to have knowledge about the environment in which the target product is going to be used. Product development should consider the interaction between the envisaged product or a demo product with the same functions on the one hand, and the users on the other, as well as observing the everyday activities of typical users, understanding the procedures and methods for using the product and subsequently pinpointing the areas which are problematic or in need of improvement. To evaluate whether the designed product is easy to use, and to improve its usability, it is also essential to record the perceptions of the people, the movement characteristics, the operability, any mental or physical stress, and so on. There is a need for products and environments which are easily applicable to various people and utilizational setups. In this paper, we present the development of a tangible design review system which makes use of virtual reality technology to display a close model of the actual product, making readily available not only visual information but also the perception of volume and weight through the fusion of kinesthetic information, enabling many people to communicate easily while experiencing this virtual reality. Furthermore, the design review of universal design products which makes use of this system will be discussed.

This work is a first attempt to visualize the social atmosphere of a audience in a VR experience using their recorded the physiological state, and then presents them to another group of audience members, aiming at a transformative perception from individual to collective experience. A virtual environment is built to share the audience's aesthetic feelings and emotions, creating a novel way of non-verbal communication in performance scenarios that aim at enhancing audio-visual perception through physiological sensing and emotional experience sharing. This experiment was designed to investigate the effect of physiological data-based reproduction of musical performances in VR on affective states.

This paper presents a virtual reality (VR) application that allows users to view a series of 360 degree videos, depicting bystander intervention scenarios, from a bystander perspective. Bystander intervention is a commonly used training on how to prevent and de-escalate potentially harmful or violent scenarios [5]. This application enables users to witness, from a first-hand perspective, a successful bystander intervention strategy being used by another person. This paper discusses motivations for creating such an application by giving an overview of the state of the art in bystander intervention training methods. It also discusses the application flow and design of the created system. Additionally, a preliminary user study was conducted to gain initial feedback and user perspectives on the system.

There are decades of work investigating how to support users in inhabiting avatars' bodies in immersive experiences, however we are still learning about how Virtual Reality (VR) can support people in more deeply inhabiting their own bodies. Over the course of five action research workshops, we explored the design space for how VR can support feeling embodied and generating movement within a dance context. We explored design factors and participants' experiences within: games intended to stimulate physical movement, single player and multiplayer 3D painting, 360 live video, and custom real-time audio and visual feedback based on motion capture. We found that participants spontaneously explored collaboration including synchronous, asynchronous, remote and collocated. Where there were mismatches between visual and kinesthetic perceptions, participants explored how to recalibrate, alternate between, and integrate perceptions. Participants were compelled to explore their control of real-time effects, which led to rich movement generation as we iterated through the effects' parameters. We present a design space that encapsulates the insights of our action research, with axes for control, collaboration, auditory and visual feedback. We discuss implications for the support of immersive embodiment in dance.

Stiffness and friction are regarded as important haptic cues for designers of haptic virtual environments. One virtual concave curvature discrimination test based on randomised block design with three factors, radius, stiffness and friction, has been designed and performed to understand human perceptual performance. Randomised block design with three factors can separately distinguish the subject random effect from main effects. In the experiment, subjects compare two virtual sequential concave surfaces and identify the surface having the higher curvature. The statistical results based on Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), regression tree and logistic regression indicate that variations in curvature discrimination may be slightly attributable to varying virtual haptic stiffness between 0.3 N/mm and 0.7 N/mm. Also, a clear interaction in radius and friction coefficient between 0 and 0.2 is found. While the experimental results are limited by some factors, the authors believe that the resulting effects of haptic surface properties may serve to improve the fidelity of medical virtual reality simulators.

Human impression plays a crucial role in effectively designing infrastructures that support active mobility such as walking and cycling. By involving users early in the design process, valuable insights can be gathered before physical environments are constructed. This proactive approach enhances the attractiveness and safety of designed spaces for users. This study conducts an experiment comparing real street observations with immersive virtual reality (VR) visits to evaluate user perceptions and assess the quality of public spaces. For this experiment, a high-resolution 3D city model of a large-scale neighborhood was created, utilizing Building Information Modeling (BIM) and Geographic Information System (GIS) data. The model incorporated dynamic elements representing various urban environments: a public area with a tramway station, a commercial street with a road, and a residential playground with green spaces. Participants were presented with identical views of existing urban scenes, both in reality and through reconstructed 3D scenes using a Head-Mounted Display (HMD). They were asked questions related to the quality of the streetscape, its walkability, and cyclability. From the questionnaire, algorithms for assessing public spaces were computed, namely Sustainable Mobility Indicators (SUMI) and Pedestrian Level of Service (PLOS). The study quantifies the relevance of these indicators in a VR setup and correlates them with critical factors influencing the experience of using and spending time on a street. This research contributes to understanding the suitability of these algorithms in a VR environment for predicting the quality of future spaces before occupancy.

This study developed and tested a research model which examined the impact of user perceptions of self-efficacy (SE) and virtual environment (VE) efficacy on the effectiveness of VE training systems. The model distinguishes between the perceptions of one's own capability to perform trained tasks effectively and the perceptions of system performance, regarding the established parameters from literature. Specifically, the model posits that user perceptions will have positive effects on task performance and memory. Seventy-six adults participated in a VE in a controlled experiment, designed to empirically test the model. Each participant performed a series of object assembly tasks. The task involved selecting, rotating, releasing, inserting and manipulating 3D objects. Initially, the results of factor analysis demonstrated dimensionality of two user perception measures and produced a set of empirical validated factors underlining the VE efficacy. The results of regression analysis revealed that SE had a significant positive effect on perceived VE efficacy. No significant effects were found of perceptions on performance and memory. Furthermore, the study provided insights into the relationships between the perception measures and performance measures for assessing the efficacy of VE training systems. The study also addressed how well users learn, perform, adapt to and perceive the VE training, which provides valuable insight into the system efficacy. Research and practical implications are presented at the end of the paper.

Vision impairments, such as cataracts, affect the way many people interact with their environment, yet are rarely considered by architects and lighting designers because of a lack of design tools. To address this, we present a method to simulate vision impairments, in particular cataracts, graphically in virtual reality (VR), using eye tracking for gaze-dependent effects. We also conduct a VR user study to investigate the effects of lighting on visual perception for users with cataracts. In contrast to existing approaches, which mostly provide only simplified simulations and are primarily targeted at educational or demonstrative purposes, we account for the user's vision and the hardware constraints of the VR headset. This makes it possible to calibrate our cataract simulation to the same level of degraded vision for all participants. Our study results show that we are able to calibrate the vision of all our participants to a similar level of impairment, that maximum recognition distances for escape route signs with simulated cataracts are significantly smaller than without, and that luminaires visible in the field of view are perceived as especially disturbing due to the glare effects they create. In addition, the results show that our realistic simulation increases the understanding of how people with cataracts see and could therefore also be informative for health care personnel or relatives of cataract patients.

In traditional CAD (computer-aided design) systems, the manipulation of points and lines is often difficult because designers manipulate virtual objects through their vision system. Nowadays, designers can explore and manipulate virtual objects in haptic-enabled CAD systems using haptic devices. Haptic devices can present force feedbacks to pull or push the users' hands into desirable targets. Of course the intent is for the user to experience the same sensations in the virtual realm as they would in the real world. Thus, sub-threshold forces, which cannot be perceived by users, should be incorporated in the control of users' movements. As a result, our attention is directed to study the effect of sub-threshold forces on the accuracy of movement in a haptic-enabled virtual reality (VR) system. In this study, our goal is to manipulate users' hands using controlled forces such that users cannot notice the forces. With this in mind, we have constructed a haptic-enabled virtual environment (VE) to carry out a multi-modal Fitts' type task. In the task, subjects could see the position of the haptic probe in the VE where forces were applied on their hands. Basically, the accuracy of subjects was measured using a performance index when the intensity and direction of forces changed. A psychophysical method was utilized to ensure that the forces were below the force threshold of the human force perception. Results indicate that the accuracy is affected by the intensity and direction of sub-threshold forces even when users are allowed to control their actions through visual feedbacks. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Virtual environments (VEs) afford similar interactions to those in physical environments: individuals can navigate and manipulate objects. Yet, a prerequisite for these interactions is being able to view the environment. Despite the existence of numerous scene-viewing techniques (i.e., interaction techniques that facilitate the visual perception of virtual scenes), there is no guidance to help designers choose which techniques to implement. We propose a scene taxonomy based on the visual structure and task within a VE by drawing on literature from cognitive psychology and computer vision, as well as virtual reality (VR) applications. We demonstrate how the taxonomy can be used by applying it to an accessibility problem, namely limited head mobility. We used the taxonomy to classify existing scene-viewing techniques and generate three new techniques that do not require head movement. In our evaluation of the techniques with 16 participants, we discovered that participants identified tradeoffs in design considerations such as accessibility, realism, and spatial awareness, that would influence whether they would use the new techniques. Our results demonstrate the potential of the scene taxonomy to help designers reason about the relationships between VR interactions, tasks, and environments. Z8 0

The objective of this study was to test acceptance of, and interest in, a newly developed prototype of virtual reality enhanced mannequin (VREM) on a sample of congress attendees who volunteered to participate in the evaluation session and to respond to a specifically designed questionnaire. Methods: A commercial Laerdal HeartSim 4000 mannequin was developed to integrate virtual reality (VR) technologies with specially developed virtual reality software to increase the immersive perception of emergency scenarios. To evaluate the acceptance of a virtual reality enhanced mannequin (VREM), we presented it to a sample of 39 possible users. Each evaluation session involved one trainee and two instructors with a standardized procedure and scenario: the operator was invited by the instructor to Near the data-gloves and the head mounted display and was briefly introduced to the scope of the Simulation. The instructor helped the operator familiarize himself with the environment. After the patient's collapse, the operator was asked to check the patient's clinical conditions and start CPR. Finally, the patient started to recover signs of circulation and the evaluation session was concluded. Each participant was then asked to respond to a questionnaire designed to explore the trainee's perception in the areas of user-friendliness, realism, and interaction/immersion. Results: Overall, the evaluation of the system was very positive, as was the feeling of immersion, and realism of the environment and simulation. Overall, 84.6% of the participants judged the virtual reality experience as interesting and believed that its development could be very useful for healthcare training. Conclusions: The prototype of the virtual reality enhanced mannequin was well-liked, without interference by interaction devices, and deserves full technological development and validation in emergency medical training. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

The recent popularity of consumer-grade virtual reality devices, such as Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, and Fove virtual reality headset, has enabled household users to experience highly immersive virtual environments. We take advantage of the commercial availability of these devices to provide a novel virtual reality-based driving training approach designed to help individuals improve their driving habits in common scenarios. Our approach first identifies improper driving habits of a user when he drives in a virtual city. Then it synthesizes a pertinent training program to help improve the users driving skills based on the discovered improper habits of the user. To apply our approach, a user first goes through a pre-evaluation test from which his driving habits are analyzed. The analysis results are used to drive optimization for synthesizing a training program. This training program is a personalized route which includes different traffic events. When the user drives along this route via a driving controller and an eye-tracking virtual reality headset, the traffic events he encounters will help him to improve his driving habits. To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we conducted a user study to compare our virtual reality-based driving training with other training methods. The user study results show that the participants trained by our approach perform better on average than those trained by other methods in terms of evaluation score and response time and their improvement is more persistent.

We introduce a dynamic weight moving VR controller for 2d haptic shape rendering using a haptic shape illusion. This allows users to perceive the feeling of various shapes in virtual space with a single controller. We designed a device that drives weight on a 2d planar area to alter mass properties of the hand-held controller. Our user study showed that the system succeeded in providing shape perception over a wide range.

Current approaches for locomotion in virtual reality are either creating a visual-vestibular conflict, which is assumed to cause simulator sickness, or use metaphors such as teleportation to travel longer distances, lacking the perception of self motion. We propose VRSpinning, a seated locomotion approach based around stimulating the user's vestibular system using a rotational impulse to induce the perception of linear self-motion. In a first study we explored the approach of oscillating the chair in different frequencies during visual forward motion and collected user preferences on applying these feedback types. In a second user study we used short bursts of rotational acceleration to match the visual forward acceleration. We found that this rotational stimulus significantly reduced simulator sickness and increased the perception of self-motion in comparison to no physical motion.

Besides visual validations of virtual car models, immersive applications like a Virtual Seating Buck enable car designers and engineers to decide product related issues without building expensive hardware prototypes. For replacing real models, it is mandatory that decision makers can rely on VR-based findings. However, especially when using a Head Mounted Display, users complain about an unnatural perception of space. Such misperceptions have already been reported in literature where several evaluation methods have been proposed for researching possible causes. Unfortunately, most of the methods do not represent the scenarios usually found in the automotive industry, since they focus on too large distances of five to fifteen meters. In this paper, we present an evaluation scenario adapted to size and distance perception within the reach of the user. With this method, we analyzed our standard setups and found a systematic error that is lower than aberrations reported by earlier research work. Furthermore, we tried to mitigate perception errors by a Depth of Field Blur applied to the virtual images.

While recent studies suggest benefits of using immersive virtual reality (VR) technology to obtain user experience during the design process of spaces, it is still unclear whether VR can be used as a reliable tool to evaluate certain environmental features such as lighting quality. This study examines six daylight control options (electrochromic windows versus blinds with different degrees of daylight transmission and color) and their impacts on users' satisfaction and visual comfort in a physical office as well as its digital twin. The daylight control options were installed in a physical office setting located in Mississippi, U.S., where participants (N = 112) experienced each daylight control option and completed an online survey. Using Matterport, web-based 3D models of the office with the daylight control options were created. Participants (N = 35, study still in progress) explored the immersive virtual models using Oculus Quest 2 VR goggles on a university campus. A verbal survey was administered to obtain participants' feedback while they were experiencing the virtual office using VR. Semi-structured interviews were also conducted after participants' VR experience. Findings revealed high visual comfort ratings for electrochromic windows in both virtual and physical settings. However, results regarding perception of glare severity and overall satisfaction with workstations were inconsistent between the VR and physical setting. Findings from this study help the designers, architects, and stakeholders identify the optimal window design features to improve user experience and comfort for office workstations. Also, this study addresses the validity of VR as a tool to assess user experience of lighting quality in spaces.

In this paper, we present a prototype system for sharing a user's hand force in mixed reality (MR) remote collaboration on physical tasks, where hand force is estimated using wearable surface electromyography (sEMG) sensor. In a remote collaboration between a worker and an expert, hand activity plays a crucial role. However, the force exerted by the worker's hand has not been extensively investigated. Our sEMG-based system reliably captures the worker's hand force during physical tasks and conveys this information to the expert through hand force visualization, overlaid on the worker's view or on the worker's avatar. A user study was conducted to evaluate the impact of visualizing a worker's hand force on collaboration, employing three distinct visualization methods across two view modes. Our findings demonstrate that sensing and sharing hand force in MR remote collaboration improves the expert's awareness of the worker's task, significantly enhances the expert's perception of the collaborator's hand force and the weight of the interacting object, and promotes a heightened sense of social presence for the expert. Based on the findings, we provide design implications for future mixed reality remote collaboration systems that incorporate hand force sensing and visualization.

Emerging technologies provide the necessary means to develop online learning programs with online experimental setups through web platforms for educational and training purposes. Combining design techniques with virtual and augmented reality, templates, contents and interfaces can improve users analytical capabilities of perception and cognition. In addition, it will allow the development of more attractive online courses, while promoting the learning process. This paper briefly describes some relevant features of the platform flock.uc.pt under development at the University of Coimbra, including some application examples. The authors intension is to demonstrate the main characteristics of this platform presenting some examples of online educational modules.

In this paper, we present our research plan to investigate how various locations of vibrotactile feedback influence user experience and risk perception within a virtual reality (VR) based safety training simulation. We describe our planned user study where the study participants experience a construction boom lift ride (or operation) in an immersive VR environment. During the virtual lift ride, participants perform stage-maintenance tasks, such as assembling light bulbs and electrical lines, which involve certain safety risks-for example, hitting electrical lines and structures during the lift operation. In the study, the vibrotactile feedback condition is varied in three levels: (1) No-Vibration, (2) Controller-Vibration, and (3) Floor-Vibration. We plan to collect and analyze both subjective and objective data related to general user experience, sense of presence, and risk perception to examine the effectiveness of the safety training. Further details of our study and the boom lift ride simulation are described, and future plans are discussed.

This paper describes Yasmine's Adventures, a location aware multimedia story designed as a location based service for a museum. Yasmine's Adventures follows a young local girl (Yasmine) through a series of short animated adventures, tailored specifically to engage visitors in exploring the relatively neglected streets of the area in which the museum is situated. Yasmine's perceptions of the landmarks, identified by community members themselves, reflect the real concerns of the community. Results from the evaluation of the user's experience suggest location connection and perception changes when locative media narratives include learning, understanding and discovery elements.

Though several studies have explored the ways in which people perceive the qualities of urban squares, the influence of living environments on such perceptions has received little attention. To fill this gap, this study examined differences in preferences for urban square design elements, particularly, the ratio of the width of a public space to the height of the surrounding buildings (D/H ratio), square size, and facade details, among people with different living environments. Virtual reality simulation techniques were used in controlled experiments with 100 participants of various nationalities, mostly Koreans, and conjoint analysis was applied to determine what combination of design elements most influenced urban square preferences. Participants experienced eight virtual squares designed with different combinations of the three design elements and assessed them based on five indicators of the quality of urban squares. Among the three design elements, the D/H ratio most significantly influenced the perceptions of quality, regardless of participants' living environments. We conclude that the level of experience in various urban environments may affect people's familiarity with these environments and their spatial perception and preferences. We thus suggest that socio-cultural differences related to users' living environments should receive more attention in urban design practice. We also demonstrate that the emerging combination of immersive virtual reality technology and conjoint analysis can function as a useful tool for urban design research.

In the context of architectural and urban design, we compared and contrasted passive observation of walkthroughs of a desktop computer modelled environment with user-controlled (active) navigation of the same model. In a study involving 81 participants, we explored the differences. in subjective responses attributable to navigation mode. Quantitative measurements using perception and sensation scales showed that differences were relatively minor, but generally suggestive of a positive connotation for the active condition. Notably, we also observed differences in the way self-navigators and observers speak about and recall the environment they experienced. These differences lead us to conclude that the best mode of presentation of a virtual built environment depends on the purpose for which opinion is being sought. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

This paper presents a detailed study of an AI-driven platform designed for the training of child welfare and law enforcement professionals in conducting investigative interviews with maltreated children. It achieves a subjective simulation of interview situation through the integration of fine-tuned GPT-3 models within the Unity framework. The study recruited participants from a range of backgrounds, including professionals experienced in conducting investigative interviews and individuals with academic qualifications in psychology, criminology, or related disciplines. To assess the effectiveness of this tool, a multi-method evaluation approach was utilized, incorporating both quantitative analyses and qualitative interviews. The quantitative methods included mixed-effects models, which provided insights into how effects such as the type of virtual environment (2D vs. 3D), scenario variations, virtual reality (VR) familiarity, and professional expertise influence the user experience. Additionally, structural equation modeling (SEM) provided deeper insights into the relationships between variables, offering a comprehensive understanding of how they collectively impact the user experience. The qualitative method included a detailed semi-structured interview that provided a deeper understanding of user experiences and perceptions. The findings indicate significant advantages of the 3D environment in enhancing Flow and Virtual Fidelity; however, the 2D environment was favored for Usability. Despite the 3D environment's potential for greater immersion, the discomfort associated with VR head-mounted displays (HMDs) led some users to prefer the 2D setup. Familiarity with VR technology positively influenced user perception, indicating that prior exposure can mitigate some of the Avatar Interaction Comfort issues. Additionally, the Hand Movement Perception was better understood in scenarios with sensitive themes. As user experience increased, participants had a more positive view of the Age-Appropriate Response. Furthermore, the dialog system's effectiveness, particularly Response Relevance and Detailed Responses, played a significant role in Empathy Elicitation, often outweighing Virtual Fidelity. However, Emotion in facial expressions and Responsiveness were two factors that negatively impacted the effectiveness of the tool, indicating areas that need improvement in the future.

Virtual reality (VR) offers potential as a collaborative tool for both technology design and human-robot interaction. We utilized a participatory, human-centered design (HCD) methodology to develop a collaborative, asymmetric VR game to explore teens' perceptions of, and interactions with, social robots. Our paper illustrates three stages of our design process; ideation, prototyping, and usability testing with users. Through these stages we identified important design requirements for our mid-fidelity environment. We then describe findings from our pilot test of the mid-fidelity VR game with teens. Due to the unique asymmetric virtual reality design, we observed successful collaborations, and interesting collaboration styles across teens. This study highlights the potential for asymmetric VR as a collaborative design tool as well as an appropriate medium for successful teen-to-teen collaboration.

We report an experiment in which participants compared the size of a visual sphere to a haptic sphere in VR. The sizes from two modalities were either congruent or conflicting (with different disparities). Importantly, three standard references (small, medium and large) for haptic sizes were used with the method of constant stimuli. Results show a dominant functional priority of the visual size perception. Moreover, observers demonstrated a central tendency effect: over-estimation for smaller haptic sizes but under-estimation for larger haptic sizes. The results are discussed in the framework of adaptation level theory for haptic size reference, and provide important implications for the design of 3D visuo-haptic human-computer interaction.

In computer animation, the creation of believable and engaging virtual characters has been a long-lasting endeavour. While researchers investigated several aspects of character design, not many studies focused on the qualities of biological human motion itself. We approached the perception of motion from the perspective of distinct movement patterns which can be observed on people with neurotic and emotionally stable personality traits. We designed an experiment in virtual reality, using a photo -realistic metro scenario, where we studied the avoidance behaviour of participants when encountering these two types of virtual characters in a constrained environment. We also make a contribution by successfully implementing two behavioural measures in particular: a choice task, and a novel 'turning point' metric, which calculates the point in the trajectory when people turned to avoid the character. Our results indicate that users' behaviour is affected by character's motion and we propose the use of these behavioural measures to investigate other aspects of character motion in future research.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Virtual reality is becoming more and more improved primarily due to numerous applications and the powers of mobile devices. Using various sensors, precise displays and high computing powers smartphone are becoming devices that make the boost in technology. Now it is necessary to efficiently use various sensors without affecting system operation and improve control abilities for various purposes. Especially in practical applications received by mass users such as games and any kind of experience. In this article, we propose a system that allows to extend the perception of the virtual world by conveying information about the user's movements in reality into the supervised model. The system retrieves data from several sources, quickly analyzes them using artificial intelligence techniques, and returns information to the mobile phone about the activity that is being processed. The concept extends the understanding of today's virtual reality by allowing the user to move and perform simple gestures in a specially designed room. Moreover, we propose multiplayer mode in virtual reality, where players are in different places. The proposed architecture of the system has been tested on simple applications, and the results show high potential for implementations in various apps by achieving almost 90% efficiency in changing player direction in real time and only 7.5% of collision cases. (C) 2020 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

The 2nd International Workshop on Virtual, Augmented, and Mixed Reality for Human-Robot Interactions (VAM-HRI) will bring together HRI, Robotics, and Mixed Reality researchers to identify challenges in mixed reality interactions between humans and robots. Topics relevant to the workshop include development of robots that can interact with humans in mixed reality, use of virtual reality for developing interactive robots, the design of new augmented reality interfaces that mediate communication between humans and robots, comparisons of the capabilities and perceptions of robots and virtual agents, and best design practices. VAM-HRI was held for the first time at HRI 2018, where it served as the first workshop of its kind at an academic AI or Robotics conference, and served as a timely call to arms to the academic community in response to the growing promise of this emerging field. VAM-HRI 2019 will follow on the success of VAM-HRI 2018, and present new opportunities for expanding this nascent research community. Website: http://vam-hri.xyz/

As the demand of Virtual Reality (VR) video streaming to mobile devices increases, novel optimization transport techniques need to be designed to cope with these ultra-high-bandwidth video services. One approach currently attracting attention is the application of adaptive tile-based streaming solutions to the VR video arena. The VR videos are encoded at different quality levels, temporally divided into segments and spatially split into tiles. During the streaming, each of these tiles can be transmitted independently according to its location within the frame (i.e., within or outside of the user's field of view). These methods open a new venue for bandwidth and latency optimization for the streaming of VR videos. However, the effect of the different adaptive streaming optimizations on the end-user perception is still an open research topic. In this demo, we present a VR video platform to experience the working principles of adaptive tile-based VR video streaming services. Through different tiling approaches, bandwidth conditions and viewport algorithms, it allows the users to explore the effects that each optimization has on the perception of the service. In addition, the platform provides real-time bandwidth savings and objective Quality of Experience (QoE) measurements to provide a quantitative analysis of the optimizations effects. This demo aims to provide a common playground for researchers to benchmark and evaluate the performance of their optimization solutions.

The advancement in virtual reality/augmented reality (VR/AR) has been achieved by breakthroughs in the realistic perception of virtual elements. Although VR/AR technology is advancing fast, enhanced sensor functions, long-term wearability, and seamless integration with other electronic components are still required for more natural interactions with the virtual world. Here, this report reviews the recent advances in multifunctional wearable sensors and integrated functional devices for VR/AR applications. Specified device designs, packaging strategies, and interactive physiological sensors are summarized based on their methodological approaches for sensory inputs and virtual feedback. In addition, limitations of the existing systems, key challenges, and future directions are discussed. It is envisioned that this progress report's outcomes will expand the insights on wearable functional sensors and device interfaces toward next-generation VR/AR technologies.

This paper examines the potential of immersive virtual reality technology for design education. A quasi-experimental study has been conducted with 40 students of different expertise levels. The students analysed a design representation using one of the two visualisation technologies: immersive virtual reality (IVR) and non-immersive virtual reality (nIVR). The results show that the expertise in the used technology and the expertise in the design domain significantly affect design understanding. On the other hand, the effect of contextual expertise was not found significant. Spatial ability affected design understanding in nIVR but not in the IVR. Visualisation technology did not have an overall effect on understanding, but IVR helped students with lower expertise to understand specific aspects of a design better (e.g. rotation-based mechanisms). The study suggests that researchers and educators control the students' expertise when assessing the effect of technology on design education. Overall, the results support the constructivist learning theory, as IVR can support context-dependent and context-independent understanding.

High Quality Mobile Virtual Reality (VR) is what the incoming graphics technology era demands: users around the world, regardless of their hardware and network conditions, can all enjoy the immersive virtual experience. However, the state-of-the-art softwarebased mobile VR designs cannot fully satisfy the realtime performance requirements due to the highly interactive nature of user's actions and complex environmental constraints during VR execution. Inspired by the unique human visual system effects and the strong correlation between VR motion features and realtime hardware-level information, we propose Q-VR, a novel dynamic collaborative rendering solution via software-hardware co-design for enabling future low-latency high-quality mobile VR. At software-level, Q-VR provides flexible high-level tuning interface to reduce network latency while maintaining user perception. At hardware-level, Q-VR accommodates a wide spectrum of hardware and network conditions across users by effectively leveraging the computing capability of the increasingly powerful VR hardware. Extensive evaluation on real-world games demonstrates that Q-VR can achieve an average end-to-end performance speedup of 3.4x (up to 6.7x) over the traditional local rendering design in commercial VR devices, and a 4.1x frame rate improvement over the state-of-the-art static collaborative rendering.

Most virtual reality (VR) experiences are held in limited physical space; therefore, increasing the physical space's spatial efficiency is an essential task for the VR industry. Redirected walking maps a virtual path and a real path with unnoticeable distortion, enabling users to walk through a much bigger virtual space than physical space. To hide the distortion from the user, detection thresholds have been measured, entirely focusing on forward steps. However, it is not uncommon for the user to walk non-forward, that is, sideward and backward in VR. In addition to a forward step, adding options for a non-forward step can expand the VR locomotion in any direction. In this work, we measure the translation and curvature detection thresholds for non-forward steps. The results show similar translation detection thresholds with forward-step and wider detection thresholds for the curvature gain in both backward and sideward step experiments. Having sideward and backward steps in the redirected walking arsenal can add freedom to virtual world design and lead to efficient space usage.

Fast-growing global markets are forcing companies to continuously re-assess customer needs when designing new products. Product evaluation is a critical task to ensure success, but it can require significant financial and time investments. From an end-user standpoint, consumers must also evaluate multiple design options before purchasing a product, which is often a complex process, especially in online environments where traditional formats coexist with more sophisticated media. Modern extended reality technologies have become an effective tool for product assessment in professional design environments as well as a powerful mechanism for consumers during decision making activities. However, the modality used to view and evaluate the product may affect the perceptual response and thus the user's overall evaluation. In this paper, we examine the influence of visual media in product assessment using different designs of a particular product typology. We discuss two studies where a group of participants used the semantic differential technique to evaluate four chair designs displayed in three different media. In our first study, participants used simultaneous evaluation to assess the products as presented in photographs, a non-immersive environment, and an Augmented Reality (AR) experience. In the second study, participants evaluated the product separately as viewed in non-photorealistic rendering, AR, and virtual reality (VR). We used the "Aligned Rank Transform" proceedings to find differences between groups for the semantic scales, the overall evaluation, the purchasing decision, and the response confidence. Our results show that visual media influences product perception. Certain characteristics in Jordan's physio-pleasure category are particularly significant as perceptual differences are more pronounced. Immersive media can highlight some product attributes and a joint evaluation can help minimize these differences.

Materials properties simulation by means of haptic devices is one of the most significant issues in the design of new human-computer interfaces to support virtual prototypes interaction in numerous product design activities. Notwithstanding the several research attempts, a very natural perception of materials has not been achieved yet. We present a novel tactile display. It combines both mechanical and electrotactile approaches to simulate natural tactile sensations. In order to enhance experience acoustic and visual cues are integrated. A signal generation method allows correlating materials properties and simulating signals according to the characteristics of fingertip mechanoreceptors. The final scope is making users perceive the object's surface roughness, slickness and texture coarseness. Research results are the developed simulation method and the detailed design of the whole tactile display. The preliminary prototype is under construction.

We propose JetUnit, a water-based VR haptic system designed to produce force feedback with a wide spectrum of intensities and frequencies through water jets. The key challenge in designing this system lies in optimizing parameters to enable the haptic device to generate force feedback that closely replicates the most intense force produced by direct water jets while ensuring the user remains dry. In this paper, we present the key design parameters of the JetUnit wearable device determined through a set of quantitative experiments and a perception study. We further conducted a user study to assess the impact of integrating our haptic solutions into virtual reality experiences. The results revealed that, by adhering to the design principles of JetUnit, the water-based haptic system is capable of delivering diverse force feedback sensations, significantly enhancing the immersive experience in virtual reality.

In this mixed-method study, we examined the design and potential impact of a mixed-reality integrated learning environment (MILE) in providing the simulated and immersive teaching practice for university teaching assistants. A virtual-reality-based learning platform integrating a Kinect-enabled sensorimotor interface was developed and used by twenty three university teaching assistants. Qualitative and quantitative data on the participants' participation behaviors, engagement, and perceptions were collected via video/screen recording; interview, surveys on teaching self-efficacy and sense of presence, and eye tracking. Results indicated that the MILE reinforced sense of presence and supported the performance of an ample range of virtual teaching tasks/actions with avatar-embodied live gesturing. The environmental fidelity in the mixed-reality learning spaces, the design and arrangement of virtual agents and avatars, and the affordance of embodied gesturing and walking are salient MILE design features that affected participants' sense of presence and their virtual teaching performance. (c) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

This paper assesses the perception of Augmented Reality (AR) by People with Intellectual Disabilities (IDs) when using assistive technologies in preparation for a museum visit. We designed and developed an application to test how AR can provide support and is perceived in this context. We organized a user study with 20 participants with IDs, all members of the same association. Three research visits, including focus groups, enabled us to assess the memorability of the contents before introducing AR technology and collect information about users' habits and preferences. Later, we assessed users' perception of AR individually during a test session and conducted a task-oriented hands-on session. Finally, we went to the museum with our users and gathered information about their preferences and choices when using AR in situ, constantly analyzing verbal and non-verbal feedback. We describe all our findings and discuss their implications in terms of guidelines for future design.

With the rapid advances in rendering technology, the implementation of highly realistic avatars in a virtual reality (VR) environment has become a possibility. Such realistic avatars have significant effects on the user's avatar perception and interactive experience. However, they consume excessive computing resources and cause the uncanny valley phenomenon, which can degrade the user experience, necessitating extensive research on the visual realism of realistic avatars. Against this backdrop, this study performs an in-depth analysis on the effect of the visual realism of avatars on the user's avatar perception in a VR environment, thereby adjusting visual realism through various factors and evaluating its effect on avatar perception. The aim is to investigate the optimal level of visual realism that allows for efficient utilization of computing resources while allowing avatar perception. Unlike previous studies that mainly focused on visual realism in two-dimensional environments, this study considers the characteristics of VR environments and investigates the various levels of visual realism that affect avatar perception in an immersive environment. In this study, the MetaHuman Creator of Unreal Engine was used to create highly realistic personalized avatars. An experiment was conducted with 40 participants recruited to evaluate the effect of visual realism on avatar perception in both VR head-mounted display (HMD) and two-dimensional display environments. This study contributes significantly to the field of personalized avatar research by providing more comprehensive analysis and insights. The analysis results indicate that the immersive environment has a significant effect on avatar perception. In particular, high avatar perception was observed in the VR HMD environment, implying that enhanced immersive experiences are important in virtual reality. The study also examined the impact of texture and the level of detail on avatar perception. The results show that there is no significant difference between moderate and high levels of detail, which indicates that when designing avatars in virtual reality, greater visual realism may not always lead to higher avatar perception. The findings of this study suggest a new direction for efficient utilization of computing resources and enhanced user experiences. It is further expected that these findings will present a standard for rendering avatars in virtual reality applications.

The sense of touch (haptics) has been applied in several areas such as tele-haptics, tele-medicine, training, education, and entertainment. As of today, haptics is used and explored by researchers in many more multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary areas. The utilization of haptics is also enhanced with other forms of media such as audio, video, and even sense of smell. For example, the use of haptics is prevalent in virtual reality environments to increase the immersive experience for users. However, while there has been significant progress within haptic interfaces throughout the years, there are still many challenges that limit their development. This review highlights haptic interfaces for virtual reality ranging from wearables, handhelds, encountered-type devices, and props, to mid-air approaches. We discuss and summarize these approaches, along with interaction domains such as skin receptors, object properties, and force. This is in order to arrive at design challenges for each interface, along with existing research gaps.

We share our experiences of teaching virtual reality with Ubiq, an open-source system for building social virtual reality (VR). VR as a subject touches on many areas, including perception, human-computer interaction, and psychology. In our VE module, we consider all aspects of VR. In recent years, networked VR, and in particular social VR, has become increasingly relevant, at the same time as demand for online and hybrid teaching has increased. Commercial social virtual reality systems have proliferated, but for a number of reasons, this has not resulted in systems any more suitable for research and teaching. As a result we created Ubiq, a system for building social VR applications designed first for research and teaching. In this article, we describe how Ubiq came to be, and our experiences of using it in our virtual environments module over the last two years.

In this article we present Ecological Augmented Reality (E-AR), an approach that questions the theoretical assumptions of mainstream Augmented Reality (AR). The development of AR systems to date presupposes an information-processing theory of perception that hinders the potential of the field. Generally, in AR devices, virtual symbolic information is superimposed upon the environment in such a way that the real and the virtual may be processed, informationally speaking, in tandem. Thus, we find information in reality itself, as well as virtual symbolic information. But by increasing the burden of symbolic crunching, AR devices run the risk of saturating the user of the technology. AR systems developed under the principles of an ecological psychology may contribute to new and better levels of performance and adaptation to the user's perceptual abilities. Our proposal is to develop AR devices such that reality itself is augmented non-symbolically by blending real and virtual layers/information. Although there are seldom AR devices in the market that are designed ecologically, two fields of research may well bring inspiration to AR developers. These are the design and manipulation of real objects, and ecological research in the field of sensory substitution. We consider them both in turn with an eye to putting forward a framework that eschews any type of information-processing regarding the nature of our psychological processes. Ultimately, our aim is to provide some guidelines for the exploration of an ecological trend in AR applications. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Does it feel the same when you touch an object in Augmented Reality (AR) or in Virtual Reality (VR)? In this paper we study and compare the haptic perception of stiffness of a virtual object in two situations: (1) a purely virtual environment versus (2) a real and augmented environment. We have designed an experimental setup based on a Microsoft HoloLens and a haptic force-feedback device, enabling to press a virtual piston, and compare its stiffness successively in either Augmented Reality (the virtual piston is surrounded by several real objects all located inside a cardboard box) or in Virtual Reality (the same virtual piston is displayed in a fully virtual scene composed of the same other objects). We have conducted a psychophysical experiment with 12 participants. Our results show a surprising bias in perception between the two conditions. The virtual piston is on average perceived stiffer in the VR condition compared to the AR condition. For instance, when the piston had the same stiffness in AR and VR, participants would select the VR piston as the stiffer one in 60% of cases. This suggests a psychological effect as if objects in AR would feel "softer" than in pure VR. Taken together, our results open new perspectives on perception in AR versus VR, and pave the way to future studies aiming at characterizing potential perceptual biases.

This study evaluates the effectiveness of Augmented Reality (AR) in improving undergraduate non-engineering students' (n = 103) achievement of learning outcomes and their perception of AR as a learning tool. An AR application for teaching structural systems, Virtual and Augmented Reality for Structures (VARS), is developed and tested using a quasi-experiment and a questionnaire. The study shows that VARS AR significantly improves the posttest quiz score of the experimental group. In addition, a conceptual framework linking design considerations and achievement of learning outcomes is created. Based on the questionnaire survey, authentic context and user interface are important design considerations influencing students' perceived achievement of learning outcomes. It was found that experience using AR and background knowledge did not influence the perceived achievement of learning outcomes and change in quiz score.

This paper examines how to model immersive virtual environments using Kalevi Kull's ecosemiotic model of four degrees of nature. Using this theoretical model allows for an investigation into the paradoxical nature of reality and hyperreality, which is a novel approach to understanding how a user co-develops with both their physical and immersive virtual environments. Analysis for the four degrees of nature within the virtual space reveals that an immersive virtual environment emerges from an imaginative void, contains milieu that users can recognize and interact with, offers the action-potentiality (affordances) for altering and changing materials within the virtual space, and the reproductive nature which converges the boundaries of reality and hyperreality during the meaning-making process for users. Additionally, this paper elaborates how technological household goods in the past century have integrated texts into the cultural construct of a home. The paper identifies how immersive virtual environments alter an inhabitant's perception and interactions within the home and explains how to model immersion, which is important for future research of user behaviour in the digital age of new media.

Touch screen technology supplies a new approach to interact with virtual environments. For haptic interaction on a touch screen, haptic devices that are capable of simultaneously conveying tactile and force information to users are highly desired for enhancing the sense of reality and immersion. To this end, a prototype haptic interface, called MH-Pen, was developed and fabricated to display the virtual interactive information through multi-mode haptic feedback. The MH-Pen is a self-contained system that provides vibrotactile feedback and precise force feedback by integrating three types of actuators. In this paper, MH-Pen's design, specifications, and working principle are described. Subsequently, to accurately display the interaction force, a hybrid actuator was designed by combining a piston-type magnetorheological (MR) actuator and a voice coil motor (VCM), and a closed-loop control scheme was built to manage the hybrid actuator. Finally, we objectively and subjectively evaluated the force feedback performance and the effect of multi-mode haptic display of the MH-Pen through physical measurements and psychophysical experiments of virtual surface stiffness display. The results show that improving the precision of force feedback and using multi-mode haptic display are both useful and necessary to enhance the sense of human-computer interaction realism. Z8 1

The aim of this study is to design and implement a virtual reality bicycle system based on a functional-based mechatronic design approach. The development of virtual reality technologies with haptic systems demands a proper integration of the involved disciplines to provide immerse experiences for users. The proposed design approach provides a formal manner to gather the subsystems in the mechatronic device. The developed system is divided in a Virtual Reality System (VRS) and a Physical System (PS) for the design process. The former includes an interactive virtual environment in which an Avatar is animated using a simple kinematic bicycle model. The latter includes an adapted mountain bicycle with haptic feedback mechanisms to interact with the user and to produce the corresponding inputs for the bicycle model. Both systems are integrated by a control behavior system that works under two operation modes, where the user carries out virtual tours and gets feedbacks from a stereoscopic display system, audio cues, and haptic mechanisms. A multibody simulation validates the consistency and the integration of the physical system. In addition, a set of experimental results show the performance of instrumentation elements, control strategies, and feedback mechanisms, to provide the user with an immersive experience in the virtual environment. A brief survey was carried out to assess the opinion of users about the virtual bicycle tours, providing feedback for future improvements. The different designed modules and sub-systems allow modifying and enhancing the VRS without major modifications of the PS, or allow enhancing the physical platform without affecting the functionality of the virtual environment. (C) 2019 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

This paper explores how prop-based virtual reality storytelling (VR&P-ST) can enhance user-centred product conceptual design (UCPCD) by the perspective of 'computing with things'. The study introduces the concept of 'rhetoric' and the framework of 'epistemic objects' to explore the value of VR&P-ST. The study provides VR&P-ST experience for designers through VR passive haptics and proposes ten hypotheses. Through data analysis, nine hypotheses were accepted, and one hypothesis was rejected. This study provides a new solution in the field of empathic methods of UCPCD. Additionally, this study verifies that VR&P-ST can improve the fidelity and historical perception of conceptual design objects and neutralize ambiguity as the 'rhetoric'. These three characteristics make VR&P-ST have a positive impact on the designer's engagement, which in turn improves the designer's evaluation and experience of the design process to a certain extent, but it still has limitations.

This paper presents the psychological analysis for designing a virtual environment (VE) supporting the upper limb rehabilitation of post-stroke patients. The environment is not a merely entertainment but an interface enabling to investigate patient's emotional and physical state influencing the rehabilitation, self-perception of the body and the exercise and self-evaluation of the performance and of the results obtained through the entire rehabilitation path. The paper presents the environment discussing its different cognitive elements and selected choices according to the related state of the art.

This article analyses the issues pertaining to the simulation of joint attention with virtual humans. Gaze represents a powerful communication channel illustrated by the pivotal role of joint attention in social interactions. To our knowledge, there have been only few attempts to simulate gazing patterns associated with joint attention as a mean for developing empathic virtual agents. Eye-tracking technologies now enable creating non-invasive gaze-contingent systems that empower the user with the ability to lead a virtual human's focus of attention in real-time. Although gaze control can be deliberate, most of our visual behaviors in everyday life are not. This article reports empirical data suggesting that users only have partial awareness of controlling gaze-contingent displays. The technical challenges induced by detecting the user's focus of attention in virtual reality are reviewed and several solutions are compared. We designed and tested a platform for creating virtual humans endowed with the ability to follow the user's attention. The article discusses the advantages of simulating joint attention for improving interpersonal skills and user engagement. Joint attention plays a major role in the development of autism. The platform we designed is intended for research and treatment of autism and tests included participants with this disorder.

Virtual Reality presents a new form of human-computer interaction for the video game world, introducing new challenges for various aspects of game development. Many of the traditional practices in the design and development of Graphical User Interfaces do not fit the context of Virtual Reality (VR), requiring adaptations or the creation of new solutions. This work proposes to analyze some of the GUI guidelines for VR, and from this, investigate the perception of players about the GUI guidelines. An analysis of some of the manufacturers and game engine guidelines for VR was carried out with the purpose of identifying which recommendations are more common. After that, a survey was applied with players to define, from the perspective of the user, the level of importance of each guideline. In addition to the analysis of the users' perspective, a set of games has been chosen and analyzed to understand the game's compliance with the guidelines. The results of the analysis showed that the games are respecting the guidelines, but users still perceive some issues with the VR games GUIs.

This paper describes a framework for designing systems for real locomotion in virtual environments (VEs) in order to achieve an intense sense of presence. The main outcome of the present research is a list of design features that the virtual reality technology should have in order to achieve such a goal. To identify these features, an approach based on the combination of two design strategies was followed. The first was based on the theory of affordances and was utilized to design a generic VE in which the affordances of the corresponding real environment could be evoked. The second was the experiential design applied to VEs and was utilized to create an experience of locomotion corresponding to that achievable in a real environment. These design strategies were chosen because of their potential to enhance the sense of presence. The proposed list of features can be utilized as an instrument that allows VE designers to evaluate the maturity of their systems and to pinpoint directions for future developments. A survey analysis was performed using the proposed framework, which involved three case studies to determine how many features of the proposed framework were present and their status. The result of such analysis represented a measure of the completeness of the systems design, of the affordances provided to the user, and a prediction of the sense of presence.

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to explore the use of virtual reality environments (VRE) for maintenance activities by augmenting a virtual facility representation and integrating relevant information regarding the status of systems and the space itself, while providing simple ways to control them. Design/methodology/approach - The research focuses in the implementation of a VRE prototype of a building management system using game engine technologies. To evaluate the prototype, a usability study has been conducted that contrasts the virtual reality interface with a corresponding legacy application showing the users perception in terms of productivity improvement of facilities management (FM) tasks. Findings - The usability tests conducted indicated that VREs have the potential to increase the productivity in maintenance tasks. Users without training demonstrated a high degree of engagement and performance operating a VRE interface, when compared with that of a legacy application. The potential drop in user time and increase in engagement with a VRE will eventually translate into lower cost and to an increase in quality. Originality/value - To date no commonly accepted data model has been proposed to serve as the integrated data model to support facility operation. Although BIM models have gained increased acceptance in architecture engineering and construction activities they are not fully adequate to support data exchange in the post-handover (operation) phase. The presented research developed and tested a prototype able to handle and integrate data in a flexible and dynamic way, which is essential in management activities underlying FM.

Haptic interaction is an important way to enhance human-computer interaction experience in the Augmented Reality (AR). Passive haptic realizes the perception and interaction of virtual objects using a physical prop without active actuators. However, when a single physical prop represents multiple different virtual objects, we might assist active haptic to enhance the haptic perception of virtual objects. This paper described a hybrid technique that combined passive haptic and active haptic and proposed a low-cost vibrotactile feedback prototype, Smart Haproxy, for haptic interaction in an AR assembly task. Smart Haproxy was integrated with a cuboid-shaped physical prop installed with vibration motors. We hope to enhance the haptic perception of virtual objects through active vibrotactile feedback while providing passive haptic sensation. Therefore, we designed a desktop jigsaw-like task to explore the effects of the combination of passive haptic and active haptic on haptic perception. The results found that our prototype could reduce the mismatch of haptic and vision between the haptic proxy and different virtual objects and significantly enhance haptic perception and interaction experience in the AR environment.

In this article we are going to explore a fundamental problem of modern virtual spaces in so called location-based games: annihilation of space through augmentation. Augmentation re-shapes the perception of the real object in space (which is not originally part of the game) by making it an active element of the game, i.e. it utilizes the object (and furthermore the surrounding space) and thus frees it of its original meaning and utility. Furthermore, it gets incorporated into the artificial (virtual) space and acquires two new properties: it becomes interactive and as a result, interchangeable. The perception of reality thus gets augmented at the same time as it gets reduced to the bare minimum of information needed to reach the goal of the game. Space becomes efficient and therefore loses its uniqueness and identity, with effects on the user's very own perception of reality.

This paper presents a novel haptic device, named DeltaFinger, designed to deliver the force of interaction with virtual objects by guiding the user's finger by a wearable delta mechanism. DeltaFinger delivers a 3D force vector to the fingertip of the index finger of the user, allowing complex rendering of various virtual reality (VR) environments. The developed device is able to render linear forces up to 1.8 N in vertical projection and 0.9 N in horizontal projection without restricting the motion freedom of the remaining fingers. The experimental results showed a sufficient precision in perception of force vector with DeltaFinger (mean angular error in the perceived force vector of 0.6 rad). The proposed device potentially can be applied to VR communications, medicine, and navigation for people with vision problems.

Drinking in social VR has become popular, yet little is known about how users perceive and experience alcohol consumption while immersed in virtual spaces with others, as well as its potential harm and negative effects on their offline and online lives. To better understand this emerging phenomenon from the perspective of both drinkers and non-drinkers, we analyzed public discussions from the r/VRchat online community on users' perceptions, and experiences with alcohol consumption in social VR. Heavy drinking is prevalent. We find that VR drinkers feel less intoxicated, which makes them drink more without being aware of it. Anti-cybersickness designs may affect users' perception of vertigo, even if the vertigo is not caused by VR. We discuss how affordances that support meaningful activities (i.e., sense of presence, embodiment, and social interactions) exacerbate alcohol abuse. We propose implications for the design of safer social VR experiences for both drinkers and non-drinkers.

Intuitive interaction is the cornerstone of efficient and effective task execution in remote robotic teleoperation. It requires high-fidelity in control actions as well as perception (vision, haptic, and sensory feedback) from the remote environment. This paper presents Vicarios, a VR-based teleoperation interface with the aim of facilitating intuitive real-time remote teleoperation, while utilizing the inherent benefits of VR, including immersive visualization, freedom of viewpoint selection, and fluidity of interaction through natural action interfaces. The overall architecture of Vicarios is described, with its components and framework. A preliminary comparative user study, with a real-world tele-manipulation task, was conducted to quantify the effectiveness of Vicarios. It is shown that the VR-based interface is easy-to-use and learn, with an overall learning rate of 0.93 sec. per trial for the users. The smoothness metric shows that the users can improve on their task performance over time as well. Vicarios allows the intuitiveness and flexibility to maintain efficiency in tele-robotic tasks. It forms the basis for an immersive perception interface in remote robotic teleoperation.

We design experiments to measure the perception (detection thresholds for gains, presence, embodiment, intrinsic motivation, and cybersickness) and physical performance (heart rate intensity, preparation time, and actual jumping distance) of redirected jumping (RDJ), under six different combinations of virtual environments (VEs) (low and high visual richness) and self-representations (SRs) (invisible, shoes, human-like). Results suggested that both VEs and SRs influence users' perception and performance in RDJ, and have to be taken into account when designing locomotion techniques.

With the development of virtual reality (VR) technology, research is being actively conducted on how incorporating multisensory feedback can create the illusion that virtual avatars are perceived as an extension of the body in VR. In line with this research direction, we introduce ArmDeformation, a wearable device employing skin-stretching to enhance virtual forearm ownership during arm deformation illusion. We conducted five user studies with 98 participants. Using a developed tabletop device, we confirmed the optimal number of actuators and the ideal skin-stretching design effectively increases the user's body ownership. Additionally, we explored the maximum visual threshold for forearm bending and the minimum detectable bending direction angle when using skin-stretching in VR. Finally, our study demonstrates that using ArmDeformation in VR applications enhances user realism and enjoyment compared to relying on visual feedback alone.

Technological advance in human-computer interaction has attracted increasing research attention, especially in the field of virtual reality (VR). Prior research has focused on examining the effects of VR on various outcomes, for example, learning and health. However, which factors affect the final outcomes? That is, what kind of VR system design will achieve higher usability? This question remains largely. Furthermore, when we look at VR system deployment from a human-computer interaction (HCI) lens, does user's attitude play a role in achieving the final outcome? This study aims to understand the effect of immersion and involvement, as well as users' regulatory focus on usability for a somatosensory VR learning system. This study hypothesized that regulatory focus and presence can effectively enhance user's perceived usability. Survey data from 78 students in Taiwan indicated that promotion focus is positively related to user's perceived efficiency, whereas involvement and promotion focus are positively related to user's perceived effectiveness. Promotion focus also predicts user satisfaction and overall usability perception. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved. Z8 1

Shared automated mobility on-demand (SAMOD) is considered as a promising mobility solution in the future. Users book trips on-demand via a smartphone, and service algorithms set up virtual stops (vStop) where users then need to walk to board the automated shuttle. Navigation and identification of the virtual pickup location, which has no references in the real world, can be challenging. Providing users with an intuitive information system in that situation is essential to achieve high user acceptance of new automated mobility services. Our novel vStop human-machine interface (HMI) prototype for mobile augmented reality (AR) supports users with information in reference to the street environment. This work firstly presented the results of an online interview study (N = 21) to conceptualize an HMI. Secondly, the HMI was prototyped by means of AR and evaluated (N = 45) regarding user experience (UX), workload, and acceptance. The results show that the AR prototype provided high rates of UX especially in terms of high pragmatic quality. Furthermore, cognitive workload when using the HMI was low, and acceptance ratings were high. The results show the positive perception of AR for navigation tasks in general and the highly assistive character of the vStop prototype in particular. In the future, SAMOD services can provide customers with vStop HMIs to foster user acceptance and smooth operation of their service. Z8 0

This study aims to evaluate the impact of virtual reality exposure on Instagram users' decisions to visit physical locations and their perceptions of the destination. It also analyzes the mediating role of destination image on the phygical tourism intentions of Instagram users in Indonesia. This study employs a positivist paradigm and uses an explanatory research design to conduct an online survey about virtual reality experiences and outline respondents' opinions about the decision to visit particular destination. Next, 280 millennial generation Instagram account followers responded to an online questionnaire; the data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. The criteria for respondents are Indonesian citizens who are Instagram followers and have virtual experience. Most respondents were between the ages of 23-32 years. The research findings indicate virtual reality positively and significantly affects destination image and offline visit decisions. Destination image has a positive and significant effect on offline visit decisions. Virtual reality encounters were incapable of substituting offline visits. The virtual reality encounter affects the perception of a destination and influences the decision to visit specific location in person. Destination images partially mediate the relationship between virtual reality experience and offline visit decisions. This study enhances the understanding of consumer behavior by examining its relationship with technological advancements, particularly among millennials. This paper also offers tangible contributions to tourism marketing management for destination managers.

In this paper a system for the virtual planning of hip operations with endoprosthetic reconstruction and its application in bone tumor surgery is described. The system enables the simulation of the operation and the construction of a custom-made implant depending on the chosen resection planes and the patient's anatomy. During the planning process integrated virtual reality techniques facilitate the interaction with the three-dimensional (3D) medical objects. Stereo viewing improves the perception of the 3D nature of bone structures and tumors. In comparison to conventional planning procedures, different operation strategies and their influence on the geometry of the custom-made endoprosthesis can be easily compared. Furthermore, the combination of multi-modal image information (CT and MR) enables an accurate 3D visualization of the bone tumor within the bone. Z8 0

Demographic change confronts us with an ever-increasing number of elderly people who face isolation and socialization issues. Background: The main challenge of this study is to inject emotional and aesthetic aspects into the design process of a virtual reality (VR) social space for the elderly. In this context, we asked architects and artists to improve the perception elderly people have of their way of communicating with others. Artists, in collaboration with computer engineers, designed experiences that evoke positive cognitive and emotional feelings and memories by following design trends and aesthetic values likely to be appreciated by older people, which were integrated in VR. Methods: We approached our goal by implementing an innovative art-driven methodology, using a plethora of technologies and methods, such as VR, artificial intelligence algorithms, visual analysis, and 3D mapping, in order to make design decisions based on a detailed understanding of the users' preferences and collective behavior. Results: A so-called virtual village "Cap de Ballon" was co-created, having a public space inspired by the villages of Santorini and Meteora and a private space inspired by the 3D scanning of an elderly person's apartment. Conclusions: The overall concept of the VR village's utility, design, and interior design were appreciated by the end users and the concept was evaluated as original and stimulating for creativity.

Technologies based on image offer a high potential to present consumers with products by focusing on their visual characteristics, but lack the capacity to physically interact with an object, which can compromise how consumer products are evaluated. The present study aims to analyse the influence of different presentation media on how users perceive the product by comparing the evaluation of a piece of furniture made by a sample of 203 users, which was presented in three different settings: a real setting (R), a Virtual Reality setting (VR) and a Virtual Reality with Passive Haptics setting (VRPH). To evaluate the product in the different settings, a semantic differential scale was built that comprised 12 bipolar pairs of adjectives. To study the results, the descriptive statistics for the semantic differential scales were analysed, a study about the frequency of repetition was conducted of each evaluation, a Kruskal-Wallis test was conducted and Dunn's post hoc tests were performed. The results showed that the presentation media of a piece of furniture influenced the evaluation of how users perceived it. These results also revealed that the haptic interaction with a product influenced how users perceived it compared to an exclusively visual interaction.

Drawing from a recent call to advance generalizability and causal inference in psychological science using contextually representative research designs [1], we introduce a conceptual framework that integrates techniques in machine perception of poses with VR-driven inverse kinematic character animation, leveraging the Unity game engine to mediate between the human user and the machine learner. This Computational Virtual Reality (C-VR) system contains the following components: a) Human motion capture (VR), b) Human to avatar character animation (inverse kinematics), c) character animation recordings (virtual cameras), d) avatar pose detection (OpenPose), d) avatar pose classification (SVM), and e) sequential avatar moving pose analyses (TCN). By leveraging the precision in representation afforded in virtual environments and agents and the precision in perception afforded in computer vision and machine learning in a unified system, we may take steps towards understanding a wider range of human complexity.

Virtual reality thanks to immersion and interaction is a good tool to assess urban environments. Allowing users to freely navigate in the virtual environment, virtual reality permits to take into account the influence of dynamic elements and the observers' actions in the perception of urban spaces. However, previous works have shown that virtual assessments of urban projects are mainly based on visual experience. Thus, the multisensory perception of the actual environment is biased. In order to tackle this issue, we propose to focus on climatic ambiances, which are dynamic and multisensory. Moreover some studies have shown the importance of these factors in the appropriation of an urban space whereas they are very seldom integrated in virtual evaluations. This paper presents a new methodolgy to delineate urban climatic ambiances in virtual environments which respects the following points: understanding and perception of climatic ambiances by non-experts, sensitive evaluation of the urban space, presence in the virtual scene and perceptual fidelity of the virtual environment. Then we apply this methodology to design ten virtual scenes with climatic effects. These scenes have been assessed in a perceptual experiment involving 42 particpants (Fig. 1). This experiment helps to improve our knowledge of perception in virtual environments in order to improve or propose new cues for sensitive climatic suggestion in VR. [GRAPHICS] .

High-quality built environments significantly enhance residents' health, urban livability, and sustainability. However, the lack of precise pre-evaluation of designs and user perceptions during the design phase often results in suboptimal improvements. This study proposes a method for evaluating and optimizing design schemes based on multidimensional physical environment simulations and virtual perception, using a university campus as a case study. Initially, we establish simulation models for sound, wind, thermal, and light environments and analyze the current state of virtual perception in the campus environment. Subsequently, we integrate the evaluation results of the physical environment and virtual perception to identify three priority intervention areas and develop corresponding design strategies. Finally, we reapply the method for pre-evaluation of the design schemes and further optimize the designs. The results show that the optimized schemes receive positive feedback in virtual perception evaluations. This study leverages the combined use of multidimensional physical environment simulations and VR technology to create an immersive virtual environment with measurable physical perception experiences, providing a new approach for guiding the sustainability of built environments.

Successful interaction with complex processes, like those in the modern factory, is based on the system's ability to satisfy the user needs during human tasks, mainly related to performances, physical comfort, usability, accessibility, visibility, and mental workload. However, the 'real' user perception is hidden and usually difficult to detect. User eXperience (UX) is a useful concept related to subjective perceptions and responses that result from the interaction with a product, system or process, including users' emotions, beliefs, preferences, perceptions, physical and psychological responses, behaviors and accomplishments that occur before, during and after use. The paper proposes the creation of a User eXperience Index (UXI) to assess the quality of human-system interaction during job tasks and, consequently, evaluate both process and workstation. The proposed approach has been applied to improve the design of assembly human tasks, using a virtual simulated case study focusing on tractor assembly. Tests with users, with different levels of expertise, allowed us to validate the proposed approach and to optimize the assembly task sequence. Results showed how the proposed UXI can validly objectify the workers' experience and can be validly used to improve the design of human tasks.

Virtual/augmented reality (VR/AR) devices offer both immersive imagery and sound. With those wide-field cues, we can simultaneously acquire and process visual and auditory signals to quickly identify objects, make decisions, and take action. While vision often takes precedence in perception, our visual sensitivity degrades in the periphery. In contrast, auditory sensitivity can exhibit an opposite trend due to the elevated interaural time difference. What occurs when these senses are simultaneously integrated, as is common in VR applications such as 360 degrees video watching and immersive gaming? We present a computational and probabilistic model to predict VR users' reaction latency to visual-auditory multisensory targets. To this aim, we first conducted a psychophysical experiment in VR to measure the reaction latency by tracking the onset of eye movements. Experiments with numerical metrics and user studies with naturalistic scenarios showcase the model's accuracy and generalizability. Lastly, we discuss the potential applications, such as measuring the sufficiency of target appearance duration in immersive video playback, and suggesting the optimal spatial layouts for AR interface design.

Kinaesthetic interaction using force-feedback devices is promising in virtual reality. However, the devices are currently not suitable for interactions within large virtual spaces because of their limited workspace. We developed a novel gaze-based kinaesthetic interface that employs the user's gaze to relocate the device workspace. The workspace switches to a new location when the user pulls the mechanical arm of the device to its reset position and gazes at the new target. This design enables the robust relocating of device workspace, thus achieving an infinite interaction space, and simultaneously maintains a flexible hand-based kinaesthetic exploration. We compared the new interface with the scaling-based traditional interface in an experiment involving softness and smoothness discrimination. Our results showed that the gaze-based interface performs better than the traditional interface, in terms of efficiency and kinaesthetic perception. It improves the user experience for kinaesthetic interaction in virtual reality without increasing eye strain.

This paper presents the development of an engaging method for learning numbers via a highly interactive edutainment children storybook based on augmented reality technology and an old folklore story. Augmented Reality (AR) refers to the merging of synthetic sensory information into a user's perception of a real environment. AR enhances the view of the real world by augmenting the real environment with virtual objects to provide additional information to the users. In the current context of an AR storybook, the view of the physical book or the real world) is enhanced using virtual objects (3D models, animations, text, and sounds) viewed over a computer display device. This paper describe the development of an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) design for providing an augmented reality book enhanced story reading & learning experience. It also highlights the design of an interactive physical book interface design of the augmented reality book. Findings from an initial observational study of the prototype are also presented. (C) 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V. Selection and peer review under responsibility of Information Engineering Research Institute

The 'perception of being present in another space' during video teleconferencing is a challenging task. This work makes an effort to improve upon a user perception of being 'present' in another space by employing a virtual reality (VR) headset and an embodied telepresence system (ETS). In our application scenario, a remote participant uses a VR headset to collaborate with local collaborators. At a local site, an ETS is used as a physical representation of the remote participant among his/her local collaborators. The head movements of the remote person is mapped and presented by the ETS along with audio-video communication. Key considerations of complete design are discussed, where solutions to challenges related to head tracking, audio-video communication and data communication are presented. The proposed approach is validated by the user study where quantitative analysis is done on immersion and presence parameters.

Spherical fish tank virtual reality (FTVR) displays attempt to create a virtual "crystal ball" experience using head-tracked rendering. Almost all of these systems have omitted stereo cues, making them easy to build, but it is not clear how much this omission degrades the 3D experience. In this study, we evaluate performance and subjective effects of stereo on 3D perception and interaction tasks with a spherical FTVR display. To control for calibration error and tracking latency, we perform the evaluation on a simulated spherical display in VR. The results of our study provide a clear recommendation for the design and use of spherical FTVR displays: while omitting stereo may not be readily apparent for users, their performance will be significantly degraded (20% - 91% increase in median task time). Therefore, including stereo viewing in spherical displays is critical for use in FTVR.

Haptic perception refers to the ability of human beings to perceive spatial properties through touch-based sensations. In haptics, contextual clues about material, shape, size, texture, and weight configurations of an object are perceived by individuals leading to recognition of the object and its spatial features. In this paper, we present strategies and algorithms to model context in haptic applications that allow users to haptically explore objects in virtual reality/augmented reality environments. Initial results show significant improvement in accuracy and efficiency of haptic perception in augmented reality environments when compared to conventional approaches that do not model context in haptic rendering.

The recent rise of social virtual reality (VR) platforms has introduced new technology characteristics and user experiences, which may lead to new forms of online harassment, particularly among teenagers (aged 13-17). In this paper, we took a multi-stakeholder approach and investigate teenagers' experiences and safety threats in social VR from three perspectives (teenagers, parents, and bystanders) to cover complementary perspectives. Through an interview study with 24 participants (8 teenagers, 7 parents, and 9 bystanders), we found several safety threats that teenagers may face, such as virtual grooming, ability-based discrimination, unforeseeable threats in privacy rooms, etc. We highlight new forms of harassment in the social VR context, such as erotic role-play and abuse through phantom sense, as well as the discrepancies among teenagers, parents, and bystanders regarding their perceptions of such threats. We draw design implications to better support safer social VR environments for teenagers.

The emergence of new virtual reality and prototyping technologies has created new cooperation possibilities in design and has originated design spaces that aim at the collaboration and exchange of knowledge. These new features have made it easier to understand the consequences of design technical choices, something that has enriched information and reality in different design review formats. Among these new spaces, co-conception spaces, that put together resources to bring closer together professionals and users of different backgrounds, are noteworthy. This work aims to analyze the use of a company' collaborative design center from the point of view of co-conception spaces' constitution. Despite the variety of technological resources and the positive perception of the users involved, some design difficulties of either organizational, political and technological point of view make it difficult to better use the space. In addition, there was little integration of end users into the design process. Based on this initial study about the concept, it is perceived that the use of these resources that strengthen participation still occurs in an essentially non-collaborative design logic, once the use of these technologies is restricted to design reviews.

Augmented reality (AR) in automobiles has the potential to significantly alter the driver's user experience. Prototypes developed in academia and industry demonstrate a range of applications from advanced driver assist systems to location-based information services. A user-centered process for creating and evaluating designs for AR displays in automobiles helps to explore what collaborative role AR should serve between the technologies of the automobile and the driver. In particular, we consider the nature of this role along three important perspectives: understanding human perception, understanding distraction and understanding human behavior. We argue that AR applications should focus solely on tasks that involve the immediate local driving environment and not secondary task spaces to minimize driver distraction. Consistent depth cues should be supported by the technology to aid proper distance judgement. Driving aids supporting situation awareness should be designed with knowledge of current and future states of road users, while focusing on specific problems. Designs must also take into account behavioral phenomena such as risk compensation, inattentional blindness and an over-reliance on augmented technology in driving decisions.

Tank Virtual Reality (FTVR) displays create a compelling 3D spatial effect by rendering to the perspective of the viewer with head-tracking. Combining FTVR with a spherical display enhances the 3D experience with unique properties of the spherical screen such as the enclosing shape, consistent curved surface, and borderless views from all angles around the display. The ability to generate a strong 3D effect on a spherical display with head-tracked rendering is promising for increasing user's performance in 3D tasks. An unanswered question is whether these natural affordances of spherical FTVR displays can improve spatial perception in comparison to traditional flat FTVR displays. To investigate this question, we conducted an experiment to see whether users can perceive the depth and size of virtual objects better on a spherical FTVR display compared to a flat FTVR display on two tasks. Using the spherical display, we found significantly that users had I cm depth accuracy compared to 6.5cm accuracy using the flat display on a depth-ranking task. Likewise, their performance on a size-matching task was also significantly better with the size error of 2.3mm on the spherical display compared to 3.1 mm on the flat display. Furthermore, the perception of size-constancy is stronger on the spherical display than the flat display. This study indicates that the natural affordances provided by the spherical form factor improve depth and size perception in 3D compared to a flat display. We believe that spherical FTVR displays have potential as a 3D virtual environment to provide better task performance for various 3D applications such as 3D designs, scientific visualizations, and virtual surgery.

Existing psychophysical experiments show that size perception can influence the human identification of object properties (e.g., shape or weight) in augmented reality (AR). Some recent studies have revealed the detection threshold of object size in real physical objects. However, the users' absolute detection threshold of object size augmentation is not clear, which limits the further evaluation of AR design. In this paper, we present two two-alternative forced-choicebased experiments on size perception of virtual objects in AR to explore the detection threshold of size difference in object augmentation. Our experimental results demonstrate that the user's point of subjective equality (PSE) is 4.00%, and the size difference could be easily detected when the virtual object is larger than 5.18%.

In a virtual reality public speaking training system, it is essential to control the audience's nonverbal behavior in order to simulate different attitudes. The virtual audience's social attitude is generally represented by a two-dimensional valence-arousal model describing the opinion and engagement of virtual characters. In this article, we argue that the valence-arousal representation is not sufficient to describe the user's perception of a virtual character's social attitude. We propose a three-dimensional model by dividing the valence axis into two dimensions representing the epistemic and affective stance of the virtual character, reflecting the character's agreement and emotional reaction. To assess the perception of the virtual characters' nonverbal behavior on these two new dimensions, we conducted a perceptive study in virtual reality with 44 participants who evaluated 50 animations combining multimodal nonverbal behavioral signals such as head movements, facial expressions, gaze direction and body posture. The results of our experiment show that, in fact, the valence axis should be divided into two axes to take into account the perception of the virtual character's epistemic and affective stance. Furthermore, the results show that one behavioral signal is predominant for the evaluation of each dimension: head movements for the epistemic dimension and facial expressions for the affective dimension. These results provide useful guidelines for designing the nonverbal behavior of a virtual audience for social attitudes' simulation.

This study aimed to establish a fully 3D modeled immersive virtual reality (IVR) system for primary school students learning about plants and evaluate teachers' perceptions of the usage of the system and pupils' flow experiences and learning attitudes. There were 5 teachers with expertise in science and IVR experience who were first interviewed to understand their consideration of the limitations of teaching about plants in the classroom. The framework and script of the learning content for the IVR system, as well as the user interface and function were then comprehensively described. Another 10 teachers were invited to evaluate the appropriateness of the system for fifth-grade students to learn about plants. These teachers generally expressed positive attitudes towards exploiting the IVR system for their teaching. Moreover, there were 37 fifth-grade students contributed to the evaluation of the system. The results indicated that the IVR system was capable of offering the pupils perceptions of antecedences to achieve flow such as task challenge, clear goal, instant feedback, well control, and playability, and aroused their flow experiences, particularly regarding autotelic experience and concentration. This study also verified the relationships between the pupils' flow experiences and learning attitudes. The crucial roles of flow perceptions including playability, challenge, and autotelic experience in the pupils' learning attitudes were further identified. According to the results of the evaluation from the teachers' and students' perspectives, several practical and academic implications of this study are proposed.

Novel wearable tactile interfaces offer the possibility to simulate tactile interactions with virtual environments directly on our skin. But, unlike kinesthetic interfaces, for which haptic rendering is a well explored problem, they pose new questions about the formulation of the rendering problem. In this work, we propose a formulation of tactile rendering as an optimization problem, which is general for a large family of tactile interfaces. Based on an accurate simulation of contact between a finger model and the virtual environment, we pose tactile rendering as the optimization of the device configuration, such that the contact surface between the device and the actual finger matches as close as possible the contact surface in the virtual environment. We describe the optimization formulation in general terms, and we also demonstrate its implementation on a thimble-like wearable device. We validate the tactile rendering formulation by analyzing its force error, and we show that it outperforms other approaches.

Virtual try-on of clothes has received much attention recently due to its commercial potential. It can be used for online shopping or intelligent recommendation to narrow down the selections to a few designs and sizes. In this paper, we present a mixed reality system for 3D virtual clothes try-on that enables a user to see herself wearing virtual clothes while looking at a mirror display, without taking off her actual clothes. The user can select various virtual clothes for trying-on. The system physically simulates the selected virtual clothes on the user's body in real-time and the user can see virtual clothes fitting on the her mirror image from various angles as she moves. The major contribution of this paper is that we automatically customize an invisible (or partially visible) avatar based on the user's body size and the skin color and use it for proper clothes fitting, alignment and clothes simulation in our virtual try-on system. We present three scenarios: i) virtual clothes on the avatar, ii) virtual clothes on the user's image and iii) virtual clothes on the avatar blended with the user's face image. We have conducted a user study to evaluate the effectiveness of these three solutions from the end user's perception of quality attributes, cognitive attributes and attitude towards using. The user study shows that among these three scenarios, the second one is most preferred by the users and for 50% of them the experience they had with our system was sufficient to make the purchase decision for the outfits they virtually tried-on.

In immersive virtual environments (IVE), users' visual and auditory perception is replaced by computer-generated stimuli. Thus, knowing the positions of real objects is crucial for physical safety. While some solutions exist, e.g., using virtual replicas or visible cues indicating the interaction space boundaries, these are limiting the IVE design or depend on the hardware setup. Moreover, most solutions cannot handle lost tracking, erroneous tracker calibration, or moving obstacles. However, these are common scenarios especially for the increasingly popular home virtual reality settings. In this paper, we present a stand-alone hardware device designed to alert IVE users for potential collisions with real-world objects. It uses distance sensors mounted on a head -mounted display (HMD) and vibro-tactile actuators inserted into the HMD's face cushion. We implemented different types of sensor-actuator mappings with the goal to find a mapping function that is minimally obtrusive in normal use, but efficiently alerting in risk situations.

In this article, we report on challenges and potential methodologies to support the design and validation of multisensory techniques. Such techniques can be used for enhancing engagement in immersive systems. Yet, designing effective techniques requires careful analysis of the effect of different cues on user engagement. The level of engagement spans the general level of presence in an environment, as well as the specific emotional response to a set trigger. Yet, measuring and analyzing the actual effect of cues is hard as it spans numerous interconnected issues. In this article, we identify the different challenges and potential validation methodologies that affect the analysis of multisensory cues on user engagement. In doing so, we provide an overview of issues and potential validation directions as an entry point for further research. The various challenges are supported by lessons learned from a pilot study, which focused on reflecting the initial validation methodology by analyzing the effect of different stimuli on user engagement.

Changing the physical environment of healthcare facilities can positively impact patient outcomes. Virtual reality (VR) offers the potential to understand how healthcare environment design impacts users' perception, particularly among those with brain injuries like stroke, an area with limited research. In this study, our objective was to forge a new pathway in healthcare environment research by developing a comprehensive, six-module 'user-centered' design decision support approach, utilizing VR technology. This innovative method integrated patient engagement, architectural design principles, BIM prototyping, and a sophisticated VR user interface to produce realistic and immersive healthcare scenarios. Forty-four stroke survivors participated, experiencing 32 VR scenarios of in-patient bedrooms, followed by interactive in-VR questions and semi-structured interviews. The results of the approach proved to be comparatively efficient and feasible, provided a high level of immersion and presence for the participants, and effectively elicited extremely rich quantifiable response data, which revealed distinct environmental preferences. Our novel approach to understanding end-user responses to stroke rehabilitation architecture demonstrates potential to inform user-centered evidence-based design decisions in healthcare, to improve user experiences and health outcomes in other healthcare populations and environments.

In this paper, we present a new three-dimensional (3D) virtual environment (3DVE) system named "QuViE/P", which can enhance quality of service (QoS), that users actually feel, as good as possible when resources of computers and networks are limited. To realize this, we focus on characteristics of user's perceptual quality evaluation on 3D objects. We propose an effective QoS control scheme for QuViE/P by introducing relationships between system's internal quality parameters and user's perceptual quality parameters. This scheme can appropriately maintain the QoS of the 3DVE system and it is expected to improve convenience when using 3DVE system where resources are insufficient. We designed and implemented a prototype of QuViE/P using a multiagent framework. The experiment results show that even when the computer resource is reduced to 20% of the required amount, the proposed scheme can maintain the quality of important objects to a certain level.

We investigate the accuracy with which the haptic sharpness perception of a virtual edge is matched to that of a real edge and the effect of the virtual surface stiffness on the match. The perceived sharpness of virtual edges was estimated in terms of the point of subjective equality (PSE) when participants matched the sharpness of virtual edges to that of real edges with a radius of 0.5, 2.5, and 12.5 mm over a virtual stiffness range of 0.6 to 3.0 N/mm. The perceived sharpness of a real and a virtual edge of the same radius was significantly different under all but one of the experimental conditions and there was a significant effect of virtual surface stiffness on the accuracy of the match. The results suggest that the latter is presumably due to a constant penetration force employed by the participants that influenced the penetration depth and perceived sharpness of virtual edges at different surface stiffness levels. Our findings provide quantitative relations for appropriately offsetting the radii of virtual edges in order to achieve the desired perceived sharpness of virtual edges.

Free-hand interaction enables users to directly create artistic augmented reality content using a smartphone, but lacks natural spatial depth information due to the small 2D display's limited visual feedback. Through an autobiographical design process, three authors explored free-hand drawing over a total of 14 weeks. During this process, they expanded the design space from a single-display smartphone format to a dual-display smartphone-wearable format (Portalware). This new configuration extends the virtual content from a smartphone to a wearable display and enables multi-display free-hand interactions. The authors documented experiences where 1) the display extends the smartphone's canvas perceptually, allowing the authors to work beyond the smartphone screen view; 2) the additional perspective mitigates the difficulties of depth perception and improves the usability of direct free-hand manipulation; 3) the wearable use cases depend on the nature of the drawing, such as: replicating physical objects, "in-situ" mixed reality pieces, and multi-planar drawings.

Obesity is a serious disease that can affect both physical and psychological well-being. Due to weight stigmatization, many affected individuals suffer from body image disturbances whereby they perceive their body in a distorted way, evaluate it negatively, or neglect it. Beyond established interventions such as mirror exposure, recent advancements aim to complement body image treatments by the embodiment of visually altered virtual bodies in virtual reality (VR). We present a high-fidelity prototype of an advanced VR system that allows users to embody a rapidly generated personalized, photorealistic avatar and to realistically modulate its body weight in real-time within a carefully designed virtual environment. In a formative multi-method approach, a total of 12 participants rated the general user experience (UX) of our system during body scan and VR experience using semi-structured qualitative interviews and multiple quantitative UX measures. Using body weight modification tasks, we further compared three different interaction methods for real-time body weight modification and measured our system's impact on the body image relevant measures body awareness and body weight perception. From the feedback received, demonstrating an already solid UX of our overall system and providing constructive input for further improvement, we derived a set of design guidelines to guide future development and evaluation processes of systems supporting body image interventions.

The authors here outline a novel type of haptic equipment incorporating electrical and fingerpad stimulation as part of an applicable unit for virtual force generation. In the proposed approach, one of the user's fingerpads and its position are manipulated with a small mechanical device using an electrical stimulus. The outcomes of basic experiments involving healthy individuals and a small prototype unit that the user can wear indicated higher precision in virtual force perception with the proposed technique than exclusively with electrical stimulation. This underlines the applicability of the approach for the provision of force feedback with a virtual reality setup. In future work, the authors plan to examine a method to control the extent of fingertip stimulation in order to support the generation of sensations close to those provided by real objects.

Exploring large virtual environments, such as cities, is a central task in several domains, such as gaming and urban planning. VR systems can greatly help this task by providing an immersive experience; however, a common issue with viewing and navigating a city in the traditional sense is that users can either obtain a local or a global view, but not both at the same time, requiring them to continuously switch between perspectives, losing context and distracting them from their analysis. In this article, our goal is to allow users to navigate to points of interest without changing perspectives. To accomplish this, we design an intuitive navigation interface that takes advantage of the strong sense of spatial presence provided by VR. We supplement this interface with a perspective that warps the environment, called UrbanRama, based on a cylindrical projection, providing a mix of local and global views. The design of this interface was performed as an iterative process in collaboration with architects and urban planners. We conducted a qualitative and a quantitative pilot user study to evaluate UrbanRama and the results indicate the effectiveness of our system in reducing perspective changes, while ensuring that the warping doesn't affect distance and orientation perception.

Interacting with computer generated humans in virtual reality is becoming more popular with the current increase in accessibility of virtual reality head mounted displays and applications. However, simulating accurate behavior in computer generated humans remains a challenge. In this study, we tested the effects of full body behavior (Body Movement and Head Movement) in terms of viewers perception (cornfortability with and realism of the computer generated human) using an animated computer generated human in virtual reality. Our findings imply the significant influence of body animation (excluding head animation) on both cornfortability and realism of the computer generated human. 37.5% of the participants did not notice the exclusion of the head animation; implying the importance of body animations over head animations. Using the results, we derive guidelines on computer generated human design and realization as well as their influence on the viewer's perception. Finally, we discuss the constraints that should be taken into account when animating in virtual reality.

While Virtual Reality has slowly become a common sight, haptics is still struggling to appeal to the general public. We argue that one of the possible reasons is that while VR is designed to be as easily adaptable as possible to many different contexts, haptics is often designed to fulfil a specific purpose and fails to present itself as a tool that can be exploited by designers. To test our hypothesis, we created a VR game where a wrist exoskeleton was used to interact with the environment. The game was composed of multiple levels, some of which also featured a metaphorical interaction through the same haptic device, and was tested by expert haptics scholars during a conference. Preliminary results suggest that by showing multiple potential usages of an exoskeleton, it was possible to enhance users' interest towards the haptic device and the game.

Virtual human avatars have long been studied in the field of embodied conversational agents. Most studies have focused on understanding how verbal and non-verbal cues build long-term relationships, trust, and credibility. Some studies have even gone as far as looking into characteristics like clothes, accessories, and race to see what effects they may have on the interlocutor. We seek feedback on an investigative study where we look to better understand how avatar race affects the perception of the avatar, information retention, and eye gaze behavior. We discuss the technical design and research methodology.

This article presents a comparison of different haptic systems, which are designed to simulate flat Human Machine Interfaces (HMIs) like touchscreens in virtual environments (VEs) such as CAVEs, and their respective performance. We compare a tangible passive transparent slate to a classic tablet and a sensory substitution system. These systems were tested during a controlled experiment. The performance and impressions from 20 subjects were collected to understand more about the modalities in the given context. The results show that the preferences of the subjects are strongly related to the use-cases and needs. In terms of performance, passive haptics proved to be significantly useful, acting as a space reference and a real-time continuous calibration system, allowing subjects to have lower execution durations and relative errors. Sensory substitution induced perception drifts during the experiment, causing significant performance disparities, demonstrating the low robustness of perception when spatial cues are insufficiently available. Our findings offer a better understanding on the nature of perception drifts and the need of strong multisensory spatial markers for such use-cases in CAVEs. The importance of a relevant haptic modality specifically designed to match a precise use-case is also emphasized.

In augmented reality (AR) environments, information is often distributed between real world and virtual contexts, and often appears at different distances from the user. Therefore, to integrate the information, users must repeatedly switch context and refocus the eyes. To focus at different distances, the user's eyes must accommodate, which when done repeatedly can cause eyestrain and degrade task performance. An experiment was conducted that examined switching context and focal distance between a real and an AR environment, using a text-based visual search task and a monocular optical see-through AR display. Both context switching and focal distance switching resulted in significantly reduced performance. In addition, repeatedly performing the task caused visual fatigue to steadily increase. Performance was particularly poor for virtual text presented at optical infinity, and for target letters that participants tried to read before their eyes had completely accommodated to a new focal distance. The results show that context switching and focal distance switching are important AR user interface design issues.

More and more cities are evolving into smart cities, increasing their attractiveness, energy efficiency, and users' satisfaction. Lighting systems play an important role in the evolution process, thanks to their ability to affect city life at night along with people's mood and behaviour. In this scenario, advanced lighting design methods such as virtual reality (VR) became essential to assess lighting systems from different points of view, especially those linked with the city users' expectations. Initially, the review highlights a list of objective and subjective parameters to be considered for the lighting design of three main city areas/applications: roads, green areas and buildings. Besides, the state-of-art in using VR for outdoor lighting design is established. Finally, the Unreal game engine is used to analyse the ability of VR to take into account the lighting parameters, not yet investigated in current literature and to highlight the VR potential for augmenting lighting design. The results confirm the benefit of using VR in lighting design, even if further investigations are needed to establish its reliability, especially from the photometrical point of view.

Equipping building envelopes with an additional layer is an effective measure for improving the overall thermal and daylighting performance and reducing the energy consumption of buildings. This study investigated the user acceptance of energy-saving retrofitting measures in office buildings, reporting on the view perception and emotional response towards ETFE double-skin facades (DSF). Virtual Reality (VR) and physics-based imaging techniques were used to evaluate the user experience of a window view in an office space equipped with a pneumatic ETFE cushion as a second building skin. Three DSF scenarios with different ETFE cushions, including a clear, fritted and switchable sample, were evaluated and compared to the original single-skin facade with double-glazed windows. The physical and luminous conditions of the office space were replicated in a virtual environment with a validated physically-based imaging technique and presented to a group of volunteers (N = 22) using a virtual reality headset. While immersed in the virtual environment, participants responded to a questionnaire enquiring into their view perception and emotional states. The results revealed a preference for view clarity of clear ETFE in double-skin facades (M-dn = 5) and less satisfaction for fritted (M-dn = 4) and switchable foil cushions (M-dn = 1.75), yet double glazing was preferred in all measured parameters (M-dn = 6). Statistical significance was found for fritted in comparison to switchable ETFE in terms of spatial pleasure and control. The highest ratings were given to clear glazing across all investigated parameters of view perception and emotional response. The lowest ranking in all questions was given to the sample with the switchable ETFE cushion. The study concluded that view clarity is a major aspect for the user acceptance of ETFE double-skin facades. Overall, this study provides a better understanding of the visual and emotional implications of viewing through ETFE foil and contributes to forming criteria for the design of nextgeneration ETFE building envelopes. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) sketching has many advantages for product design and tends to be more and more used among designers and non-designers (end-users). Nevertheless, few studies have focused on the skills needed to use VR sketching for non-designers especially VR novices in VR software. This study focuses on identifying the cognitive impact of VR sketching compared to traditional sketching on VR expert and VR novice in an experimental setting. Thirty-one participants composed of VR experts (N = 15) and VR novices (N = 16) completed a mental rotation test and then performed one traditional paper and pencil sketching task and two VR sketching tasks. We also measured the participants' movements when using the VR sketching. Results show that VR experts perform better than VR novices in VR sketching because training is an essential element for the quality of traditional and VR sketching. Nevertheless, VR novices with previous training in traditional drawing and/or high mental rotation skills will be able to produce good-quality sketches. In addition, the results show that users moving more in the immersive environment performed better quality sketches if the drawing requires more complex shapes. Our results suggest that VR sketching can be complex to use for a part of the population that may be end-users, especially for those with little experience in traditional and VR sketching and with poor visuospatial abilities. We, therefore, advise to check the non-designers' prior skills, otherwise, it will be necessary to train these users in VR sketching.

The credibility of an instructional simulation is the most important issue in distance education, where it may replace hands-on activities. This credibility is based in large part upon verisimilitude, a perception strongly influenced by the simulation's realism. This paper presents a case study encompassing the design process of a simulation-based virtual laboratory, which was guided by a realism principle, and an investigation of its credibility among potential users. We found that many characteristics of the environment associated with the design principle favoured its credibility, but that others had widely varying, even opposite, effects among users. A user's prior experience was shown to play a crucial but intricate role in verisimilitude and credibility judgements.

This research explores the cross-modal correspondence effect of ambient color on people's taste perception in virtual reality (VR). To this end, we designed and conducted two experiments to investigate whether and how taste-congruent ambient colors in VR influence taste perception measured by four aspects: 1) taste ratings of a neutral drink; 2) taste association with virtual environments; 3) associated scenarios when immersed in these virtual environments; and 4) participants' liking of these environments. In Experiment 1, participants adjusted the ambient light with different cross-modal-related colors in the immersive environments and reported their scaling of the Virtual Reality Sickness Questionnaire (VRSQ). Comfortable light intensity for each ambient color was obtained and color recognition problems were observed. In Experiment 2, participants tasted black tea (as the neutral drink), after being exposed to eight different virtual environments with different ambient colors. Results showed that the pink ambient color significantly increased the sweetness ratings. Differences in the color-taste association and environment liking were also observed in the ambient color conditions. Our results provide new insights into the cross-modal correspondence effect on ambient color and taste perception not found in prior work in VR scenarios.

The growing interest in the metaverse has led to a corresponding increase in attention towards virtual reality (VR) exhibitions. Furthermore, with the potential and possibility of a virtual environment without physical and economic constraints, expectations for user experiences based on diverse exhibition environments are increasing. Accordingly, this study investigated the characteristics of visitor experience in relation to the spatial environment of VR exhibitions, particularly focusing on the representational fidelity of the real-physical world. We experimented with comparing the user experience in reality-based (realistically representing the physical world, high representational fidelity level) and virtuality-based (surreal, low representational fidelity level) VR exhibition settings to explore design implementation. User experience data were collected through surveys, behavioral observation by video recording, and interviews. In terms of surveys, there was no significant difference in presence and enjoyment by environment, but the reality-based environment was scored significantly higher for communication. The behavioral analysis found that more active movements were captured in the virtualitybased environment. Qualitative analysis of the interview found differences in perception, emotions, and behavior by spatial environment, such that the newness and openness of the virtuality-based environment induced active movement of participants, and the familiarity of the reality-based environment provided comfortable feelings and supported participants' concentration on exhibition contents. The results of the study suggest how the spatial environment of VR exhibitions can contribute to user experiences. Z8 0

The lack of perception of recoil limits the immersion of virtual reality first-person shooting games in which users hold a gun in their hand. This paper presents the design and modeling of an ungrounded haptic gun that could simulate the recoil using asymmetric force, which is rendered by a voice coil actuator and produces directional force perception to users rather than vibration feedback. A magnet is driven by the electromagnetic force and moves forward inside the gun like a bullet does and the corresponding reaction force is perceived by users as a recoil. A spring is used to reset the position of the magnet, and a friction damper is used to prevent a collision when the magnet returns to its initial position that breaks the rendering of asymmetric force. We analyzed the dynamic model of the recoil. A user study was conducted to comparatively evaluate the perception of shooting recoil as well as the subjective preference of the proposed recoil rendering method. The results show that our proposed haptic gun with asymmetric force rendering could induce clear perception of shooting recoil, and could provide a more favored virtual shooting experience.

Recently, intelligent realities (IRs)-integrated systems that combine advanced analytics technologies such as digital twins (DTs) and artificial or virtual reality technologies-have emerged as a value-adding enhancement of DTs for facilities management (FM). However, DT-based IRs for maintenance are yet to be studied to determine their fitness for purpose from a practice perspective. The lack of practitioners' perspectives on the development of DT-based IR poses a potential disconnection between desired end user preferences for interaction with a DT for maximum application benefits and the theoretical development of this emerging knowledge field. This paper presents FM professionals' ex-ante evaluation of a conceptual prototype for a DT-based IR system. Using an electronic survey among selected FM professionals from educational and transportation facilities, it was found that the proposed solution can improve the visibility of managed assets, enhance predictive maintenance (PdM) practice, and provide cognition and judgment aid for FM professionals when they are mobile. The study provides relevant insights for developers of DT solutions and researchers on the preferred end user interaction modalities.

This study investigates the effects of a virtual hand representation on the user experience including social presence during hand-based 3D remote collaboration. Although a remote hand appearance is a critical parts of a hand-based telepresence, it has been rarely studied in comparison to studies on the self-embodiment of virtual hands in a 3D environment. Thus, we conducted a user study comparing the three virtual hands models (Skeleton, Low Polygon and Realistic) while performing a remote collaborative task based on the American Sign Language (ASL) using both Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) environments. We found that the realistic type was perceived as the most sense of being together, human-like, and trustable representation. The low polygon model could also convey a clear sign and moderate level of social presence. Although the system was configured asymmetrically in AR and VR, little difference in perception was found except for the participant's mental load and message understanding. We then discuss the results and suggest design implications for future hand-based 3D telepresence systems.

Augmented Reality (AR) is a technology that can integrate virtual information into real world in real time, and enhance the perception ability of reality. The research content in this paper is divided into two parts. One is tracking and registration of virtual objects, and the other is occlusion handling between real and virtual scenes in an AR system. For tracking and registration of virtual objects, gyroscope sensor feature in smartphone combined with feature detection and matching techniques in computer vision are employed to realize tracking and registration of virtual objects based on natural marks. For occlusion handling between real and virtual scenes, a user-defined depth layers method integrating with image segmentation technology is designed to handle AR occlusion on the smartphone. Experimental results show that the designed smartphone-based AR system can realize the real-time registration and occlusion handling between real world and virtual scene.

Virtual reality (VR) technologies provide a shared platform for collaboration among users in a spatial context. To enhance the quality of social signals during interaction between users, researchers and practitioners started augmenting users' interpersonal space with different types of virtual embodied social cues. A prominent example is commonly referred to as the "Big Head" technique, in which the head scales of virtual interlocutors are slightly increased to leverage more of the display's visual space to convey facial social cues. While beneficial in improving interpersonal social communication, the benefits and thresholds of human perception of facial cues and comfort in such Big Head environments are not well understood, limiting their usefulness and subjective experience. In this paper, we present a human-subject study that we conducted to understand the impact of an increased or decreased head scale in social VR on participants' ability to perceive facial expressions as well as their sense of comfort and feeling of "uncanniness." We explored two head scaling methods and compared them with respect to perceptual thresholds and user preferences. We further show that the distance to interlocutors has an important effect on the results. We discuss implications and guidelines for practical applications that aim to leverage VR-enhanced social cues.

There remains a limited understanding of factors in presence and its relation to performance. This research examined a range of synthetic environment (SE) design features (viewpoint, auditory cue type and visual background) suspected to influence presence, and evaluated differences in presence, workload and task performance caused by manipulations of the factors and task difficulty in a virtual-reality-based basketball free-throw task. Thirty-two research participants were also required to perform secondary-monitoring tasks to assess attention allocation to the virtual and (surrounding) real environments, as an indicator of presence. Analysis of variance results demonstrated immersiveness (viewpoint) and auditory cue type to significantly influence the sense of subjective presence and perceptions of workload. Virtual task performance was significantly affected by task difficultly. This Study also provided further evidence of significant positive relations between presence and workload, but no evidence of a correlation of objective presence and performance. These results have general applicability for the design of multimodal SE-based interfaces for real-world tasks, such as telerobot control. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Digital gloves play an important role in technology development for the life sciences, education, industrial processes, sports, augmented reality, and audiovisual entertainment. This paper proposes a novel digital glove design that integrates various features-including mechanical physical limit feedback, electric shock tactile feedback, finger bending sensation, finger gripping force and action prediction, and three-dimensional spatial positioning-to improve the feel and practical experience in virtual reality (VR). Hand dynamic perception and action prediction not only provide instantaneous data information, but can also predict actions to improve the system's operational performance. Eight infrared light-emitting diodes are used for three-dimensional spatial positioning to allow for accurate location and simulation of the user's hand in a virtual environment created using the Unity game engine. The proposed digital glove acts not only as a VR remote controller, but also provides physical feedback to the user that touches virtual objects. Future application areas of this digital glove include simulation training, medical rehabilitation, sports and leisure, and VR games, among others.

We present a new tactile display for use in dexterous telemanipulation and virtual reality. Our system renders the location of the contact centroid moving on the user's fingertip. Constructed in a thimble-sized package and mounted on a haptic force-feedback device, it provides the user with concurrent feedback of contact location and interaction forces. We believe such a design will enable more versatile object manipulation and richer haptic interactions. To evaluate this display concept, we conducted two perceptual experiments. First, human subjects judged object curvature using both direct manipulation of physical models and virtual manipulation via the device. Results show similar levels of discrimination in real and virtual interactions, indicating the device can effectively portray contact information. Secondly, we investigated virtual interactions with rolling and anchored objects and demonstrated that users are able to distinguish the interaction type using our device. These experiments give insight into the sensitivity of human perception and suggest that even a simple display of the contact centroid location may significantly enhance telerobotic or virtual grasping tasks.

In recent years, three-dimensional design, dressing and simulation programs came into prominence in the textile industry. By these programs, the need to produce clothing samples for every design in design process has been eliminated. Clothing fit, design, pattern, fabric and accessory details and fabric drape features can be evaluated easily. Also, body size of virtual mannequin can be adjusted so more realistic simulations can be created. Moreover, three-dimensional virtual garment images created by these programs can be used while presenting the product to end-user instead of two-dimensional photograph images. In this study, a survey was carried out to investigate the visual perception of consumers. The survey was conducted for three different garment types, separately. Questions about gender, profession etc. was asked to the participants and expected them to compare real samples and artworks or three-dimensional virtual images of garments. When survey results were analyzed statistically, it is seen that demographic situation of participants does not affect visual perception and three-dimensional virtual garment images reflect the real sample characteristics better than artworks for each garment type. Also, it is reported that there is no perception difference depending on garment type between t-shirt, sweatshirt and tracksuit bottom.

With the advantages of small size and light weight, electrical stimulation devices have been investigated for providing haptic feedback in relation to virtual objects. Electrical stimulation devices can directly activate sensory receptors to produce a reaction force or touch sensations. In the current study, we tested a new method of electrically inducing force sensation in the fingertip, presenting haptic feedback designed to alter perceptions of softness, hardness and stickiness. We developed a 3D virtual reality system combined with finger-motion capture and electrical stimulation devices. We conducted two experiments to evaluate our electrical stimulation method and analyzed the effects of electrical stimulation on perception. The first experiment confirmed that participants could distinguish between the directions of the illusory force sensation, reporting whether the stimulation flexed their index finger forward or extended it backward. The second experiment examined the effects of the electric current itself on the intensity of their perception of the softness, hardness and stickiness of a virtual object.

With the advantages of small size and light weight, electrical stimulation devices have been investigated for providing haptic feedback in relation to virtual objects. Electrical stimulation devices can directly activate sensory receptors to produce reaction force or touch sensations. In the current study, we tested a new method for inducing electrical force sensation in the fingertip, presenting haptic feedback designed to alter softness, hardness and stickiness perception. We developed a 3D virtual reality system combined with finger-motion capture and electrical stimulation devices. The system can provide visual feedback and the sensation of illusory force that moved the index finger by forward-flexion or backward-extension using tendon or cathodic stimulation. In the demo, participants can experience the sensation of softness, hardness and stickiness of a virtual object.

We propose a set of stylized visual effects (VFX) meant to improve the sensation of contact with objects in Augmented Reality (AR). Various graphical effects have been conceived, such as virtual cracks, virtual wrinkles, or even virtual onomatopoeias inspired by comics. The VFX are meant to augment the perception of contact, with either real or virtual objects, in terms of material properties or contact location for instance. These VFX can be combined with a pseudo-haptics approach to further increase the range of simulated physical properties of the touched materials. An illustrative setup based on a HoloLens headset was designed, in which our proposed VFX could be explored. The VFX appear each time a contact is detected between the user's finger and one object of the scene. Such VFX-based approach could be introduced in AR applications for which the perception and display of contact information are important.

Supernumerary robot limbs (SL) can expand the ability of users by increasing the number of degrees of freedom that they control. While several SLs have been designed and tested on human participants, the effect of the limb's appearance on the user's acceptance, embodiment and device usage is not yet understood. We developed a virtual reality platform with a three-arm avatar that enabled us to systematically investigate the effect of the supernumerary limb's appearance on their perception and motion control performance. A pilot study with 14 participants exhibited similar performance, workload and preference in human-like or robot-like appearance with a trend of preference for the robotic appearance.

The ability to deliver sensations of human-like touch within virtual reality remains an important challenge to immersive, realistic experiences. Since conventional haptic actuators impart distinctively unnatural effects, we instead tackle this challenge through the design of a rendering mechanism using soft pneumatic actuators (SPA), embedded within a wearable jacket. The resulting system is then evaluated for its ability to mimic realistic touch gesture sensations of grab, touch, tap, and tickle as performed by human fingertips. The results of our experiments indicate that the stimuli produced by our design were reasonably effective in presenting realistic human-generated sensations.

Nowadays, virtual reality allows products to be presented to potential users, but as they cannot feel them physically, their perception of some product attributes can be distorted. Conversely, the mixture of visual and touch feelings that tangible virtual reality (TVR) offers could act as a similar approach to knowing products in real settings. This is a first study to compare the evaluation of product attributes presented in a real setting and by tangible virtual reality to verify the possible equivalence of both means. The semantic differential method was used to evaluate product attributes by creating a semantic scale with 16 bipolar pairs. Seventy-seven people (mean age of 21.7) evaluated one product by both means in an alternate viewing order. The results revealed that the product that was chosen was rated with more positive attributes in some bipolar pairs when experienced via TVR, while it was better rated in others when experienced in a real environment. The Wilcoxon test (alpha = 0.05) corroborated that the presentation means used to evaluate the product influenced the evaluation of 15 of 16 attributes.

Both policy and research highlight the importance of diverse stakeholder input in urban development processes but visualizing future built environments and creating two-way design communication for non-expert stakeholders are challenging. The present study develops an intuitive and simplified 3D modeling platform that integrates web-based desktop, virtual reality and mobile augmented reality technologies for remote simultaneous urban design collaboration. Through iterative prototyping, based on two series of workshops with stakeholders, the study resulted in such an integrated platform as a minimum viable product as well as specifications for a minimum marketable product to be used in real projects. Further study is required to evaluate the minimum level of detail in the 3D modeling necessary for good perception of scale and environmental impact simulation.

The technology of embodied conversational agents provides an attractive approach to achieving natural human-computer interaction if the interaction design is handled sensitively. In view of this, we designed and developed an embodied tour guide, Elva, 'who' is able to engage conversationally with users about gallery exhibits and also capable of behaving non-verbally using gesture and facial expression. The research focuses on the attributes of agent autonomy and believability. To achieve autonomy, we present a three-layer architectural design to ensure appropriate coupling between the agent's perception and action. With regard to believability, we utilize the notion of schema to support structured and coherent verbal behaviours. We also pay careful attention to the design of non-verbal interactions that establish social facts within the virtual world. A user study was performed to evaluate user satisfaction and agent believability. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Understanding consumer behavior is crucial for increasing the likelihood of product success. Virtual Reality head-mounted displays incorporating physiological techniques such as eye-tracking offer novel opportunities to study user behavior in decision-making tasks. These methods reveal unconscious or undisclosed consumer responses. Yet, research into gaze patterns during virtual product evaluations remains scarce. In this context, an experiment was conducted to investigate users' gaze behavior when evaluating their preferences for 64 virtual prototypes of a bedside table. Here, 24 participants evaluated and selected their preferred design through eight repeated tasks of an 8-AFC, with individual evaluations conducted for each design to ensure the reliability of the findings. Several eye-tracking metrics were computed (i.e., gaze time, visits, and time to first gaze), statistical tests were applied, and a Long Short-Term Memory model was created to recognize decisions based on attentional patterns. Our results revealed that the Gaze Cascade Model was replicated in virtual environments and that a correlation between product liking and eye-tracking metrics exists. We recognize subjects' decisions with a 90% accuracy, based on their eye patterns during the three seconds before their decision. The results suggest that eye-tracking can be an effective tool for decision-making prediction during product assessment in virtual environments. Z8 0

Purpose - This study aims to investigate the effect of virtual reality experience quality on destination visit intention and virtual reality travel intention through the technology acceptance model (TAM).Design/methodology/approach - Quantitative data gathered from questionnaires applied to 198 people after undertaking an imaginary three-dimensional (3D) destination experience were analyzed with PLS-SEM.Findings - Virtual reality experience quality influences perceptions and intentions. The perceived ease of use affects perceived usefulness, perceived usefulness effects attitude and destination visit intention, while perceived risk affects only virtual reality travel intention. Attitude affects both intentions.Research limitations/implications - The main limitation of the study relates to the quality of the experience offered, which is limited to the technical capacity of the virtual reality glasses used. Virtual reality can be used as a new economic offering and create a realistic destination experience. Virtual reality experience quality is an important determinant of intention in physical and imaginary travels, in shaping perceptions and minimizing travel risks. The explanatory power of the model can be increased by adding the perceived risk variable to TAM. The study has brought new perspectives, new insights and suggestions for developing tourism.Originality/value - In the study, a 3D imaginary destination with its mise-en-scene and story, which includes more than one destination type, was designed. This study contributes to the literature by analyzing real and virtual visit intentions, combining the fields of the experience economy, risk perception and TAM.

At present, science and technology have become an important step in the reform and development of sports, promoting the vigorous development of sports in our country. From the perspective of virtual computer technology, this paper applies virtual computer technology to modern training and designs a training system for volleyball players based on virtual reality technology. First, collect the sports data of the athletes, use the virtual reality perception interaction model to input the data into the virtual environment generation unit, perform data fusion under the control of the simulation management module, and combine the database in the sports simulation volleyball training data unit and the sports in the image card Behavioral interpretation, simulating 3D modeling based on User settings within the 3D Model Processor. The test results show that the system helps to improve the training effect of athletes, saves the cost of sports training, and has high practical application value.

Pseudo-Haptic techniques, or visuo-haptic illusions, leverage user's visual dominance over haptics to alter the users' perception. As they create a discrepancy between virtual and physical interactions, these illusions are limited to a perceptual threshold. Many haptic properties have been studied using pseudo-haptic techniques, such as weight, shape or size. In this paper, we focus on estimating the perceptual thresholds for pseudo-stiffness in a virtual reality grasping task. We conducted a user study (n = 15) where we estimated if compliance can be induced on a non-compressible tangible object and to what extent. Our results show that (1) compliance can be induced in a rigid tangible object and that (2) pseudo-haptics can simulate beyond 24 N/cm stiffness (k = 24N/cm, between a gummy bear and a raisin, up to rigid objects). Pseudo-stiffness efficiency is (3) enhanced by the objects' scales, but mostly (4) correlated to the user input force. Taken altogether, our results offer novel opportunities to simplify the design of future haptic interfaces, and extend the haptic properties of passive props in VR.

In this project, by combining thermal feedback with Virtual Reality (VR) and utilizing thermal stimuli to present temperature data of weather, we attempted to provide a multi-sensory experience for enhancing users' perception of environment in virtual space. By integrating thermal modules with the current VR head mounted display to provide thermal feedback directly on the face, and by setting thermal stimulus to provide similar feeling towards real air temperature, we developed an application in which users are able to "feel" the weather in VR environment. An user experiment was also conducted to evaluate our design, according to which we verified that thermal feedback can improve users' experience in perceiving environment, and this research also provided a new approach for setting thermal feedback for presenting environmental information in virtual space.

The recent years have witnessed striking global demographic shifts. Retired elderly people often stay home, seldom communicate with their grandchildren, and fail to acquire new knowledge or pass on their experiences. In this study, digital technologies based on virtual reality (VR) with tangible user interfaces (TUIs) were introduced into the design of a novel interactive system for intergenerational learning, aimed at promoting the elderly people's interactions with younger generations. Initially, the literature was reviewed and experts were interviewed to derive the relevant design principles. The system was constructed accordingly using gesture detection, sound sensing, and VR techniques, and was used to play animation games that simulated traditional puppetry. The system was evaluated statistically by SPSS and AMOS according to the scales of global perceptions of intergenerational communication and the elderly's attitude via questionnaire surveys, as well as interviews with participants who had experienced the system. Based on the evaluation results and some discussions on the participants' comments, the following conclusions about the system effectiveness were drawn: (1) intergenerational learning activities based on digital technology can attract younger generations; (2) selecting game topics familiar to the elderly in the learning process encourages them to experience technology; and (3) both generations are more likely to understand each other as a result of joint learning.

Human-like characters in the interface may evoke social responses in users, and literature suggests that realism is the most important factor herein. However, the effects of interface characters on the user are not well understood. We developed an integrative framework, called I-PEFiC, to explain 'persona' and realism effects on the user. We tested an important part of the model using an experimental design in which 140 middle school students were class-wise shown an informative virtual reality demonstration that incorporated either a realistic or an unrealistic (fantasy) interface character, or no character. Findings show, first, no persona effect on task performance. We discuss how user engagement might be related to persona effects. Second, designed realism of the interface character contributed to user engagement when controlled for various user perceptions. Moreover, perceived aesthetics and task-relevance further influenced user engagement. Third, user engagement and task performance combined better predicted satisfaction than either one of the factors alone. In sum, several appearance- and task-related factors contributed to user engagement and user satisfaction. Thus, realism is not all. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Wearable Augmented Reality (AR) is arguably closing the gaps of interaction of user with computers, and computers with the real world. This generates a strong need to understand the neural, cognitive and perceptual mechanisms leveraged by this technology. Because the most advanced wearable AR technologies support gestural interaction with real content, in our study we exploit the well known dissociation between vision-for perception and vision-for-action to understand how the user's cognitive systems encode the AR space, to introduce novel methodologies to support UI design in AR, and to provide general guidelines for designing visual and interactive spaces in AR. In two experiments we find a dissociation between visual-only estimates of depth and motor finger-reaching to similar elements, supporting the idea that AR space leverages similar mechanisms as the real world, and can be designed accordingly.

Haptic human interfaces are nowadays becoming more and more diffused also thanks to their combined use with Virtual Reality & Augmented Reality (VR & AR). Although many research platforms explore kinesthetic interaction with virtual objects, the only feedback available in widespread commercial devices is a rather simple vibration. In this paper we introduce "FOLDWAY-Touch" a novel portable kinesthetic haptic interface whose technology can be easily integrated into hand-held devices. The key technological aspect is the miniaturization of the haptic mechanism achieved through the use of origami design and manufacturing principles. Another achievement of this paper is the use of FOLDAWAY-Touch in a virtual simulation to grasp objects with different levels of stiffness.

Among the emerging trends in Human-Robot Interaction, some of the most frequently used paradigms of interaction involve the use of Tangible User Interfaces. This is especially true also in the field of robotic gaming and, more specifically, in application domains in which commercial off-the-shelf robots and projected Mixed Reality (MR) technology are combined together. The popularity of such interfaces, also in other domains of Human-Machine Interaction, has led to an abundance in the number of gestures that can be used to perform tangible action using these interfaces. However, there are not sufficient pieces of evidence on how these different modalities can impact the user experience, in particular when interacting with a robot in a "phygital play" environment. By moving from this consideration, this paper reports on the efforts that are ongoing with the aim to investigate the impact of diverse gesture sets (which can be performed with the same physical prop) on the perception of interaction with the robotic system. It also presents preliminary insights obtained, which could be exploited to orient further research about the use of such interfaces for interaction in MR-based robotic gaming and related scenarios.

Head-mounted display (HMD)-based virtual reality (VR) applications can potentially facilitate various visualization-intensive tasks in the construction industry, such as design and constructability review. However, the lack of quantitative validation on the theoretical benefits of VR has impeded its industry implementation. This paper designed four construction design review-related tasks and performed user tests with 24 construction engineering novices and 24 industry experts. Participants were randomly assigned to treatment or control groups, performing four tasks via HMD-based VR or desktop-based VR, respectively. Experimental results and statistical analysis show that users' performance was significantly enhanced by the HMD in detecting design errors and planning for construction sequence. The scale of performance improvement varied from 18.22% to 59.01%. The implementation of HMD-based VR applications should be intentional because its benefits are only significant in specific use cases. The intellectual contribution of this paper includes quantifying the impact of HMD to the tested VR applications and developing the technology assessment framework. Meanwhile, the findings from this paper can facilitate the implementation of effective VR applications in the construction industry.

In this work, we explore the role of augmented reality as a meta-user interface, with particular reference to its applications for interactive fitting room systems and the impact on the related shopping experience. Starting from literature and existing systems, we synthesized a set of nine interaction design patterns to develop AR fitting rooms and to support the shopping experience. The patterns were evaluated through a focus group with possible stakeholders with the aim of evaluating and envisioning the effects on the shopping experience. The focus group analysis shows as a result that the shopping experience related to an AR fitting room based on the proposed patterns is influenced by three main factors, namely: the perception of the utility, the ability to generate interest and curiosity, and the perceived comfort of the interaction and environment in which the system is installed. As a further result, the study shows that the patterns can successfully support these factors, but some elements that emerged from the focus group should be more investigated and taken into consideration by the designers.

Olfactory adaptation is a non-negligible issue to consider to provide sustained olfaction experience in virtual reality. This study conducted experiments to measure users' adaptation to pulse ejection odor display by ink-jet devices and analyzed the individual differences in olfactory perception. The results revealed that the average intensity perception dropped approximately to 70% of max perceived intensity in the 10-minute scent display session. Furthermore, individuals' adaptation levels were correlated to personal sensitivity to olfactory intensity variations acquired by labeled magnitude scale. This work provided a theoretical basis to personalize odor display in VR for more stable olfactory experience.

In this paper, we introduce our VR system which uses projection, speakers, and a fan to express the distinctive experience of concentration in a Japanese tea ceremony. This system aims to broaden the participant's field of perception (view, hearing, and wind) from a narrow field of view in the tea bowl to multiple sensations of the outside of the tea ceremony room. The continuous concentration, which is presumed by the user's stable motion while mixing tea using a bamboo tea whisk, broadens the field of view and other senses. The accelerometer sensor values of a bamboo whisk were used in an auto-correlation function for detecting the user's stable mixing motion in the tea bowl. In the demonstration experiment in IVRC 2013 (International Virtual Reality Contest 2013), the participants commented positively on the system.

Virtual reality (VR) experimental platforms are frequently utilized in the teaching of chemical experiments because of its high level of interest, lifelike effect, and safe and dependable advantages. However, users are unable to operate genuine experimental equipment on the present VR experimental platform, and these systems are unable to precisely assess and manage users' operation intentions. In light of the aforementioned concerns, this paper develops a smart glove with cognitive capabilities, which is composed of a variety of simple commercial sensors and binocular cameras. The smart glove can be applied to the virtual-reality fusion chemical experiment platform established in this paper. Additionally, a navigation interaction algorithm based on multimodal intention understanding is also proposed in this study (hereinafter referred to as NIAMIU algorithm). The smart glove can accurately and efficiently obtain the user's operation intention through the algorithm. The experiment showcased that the smart glove detailed in this paper is capable of precisely determining the position of users' hands in space and guiding and rectifying the user's interactive behavior. Meanwhile, users may converse with the smart glove in an unsupervised setting and conclude the experiment by following the directions supplied by the smart glove. In comparison to a conventional data glove, the smart glove designed in this paper considerably augments the accuracy and efficiency of human-computer interaction.

Situational awareness is the perception and understanding of the surrounding environment. Maintaining situational awareness is vital for performance and error prevention in safety critical domains. Prior work has examined applying augmented reality (AR) to the context of improving situational awareness, but has mainly focused on the applicability of using AR rather than on information design. Hence, there is a need to investigate how to design the presentation of information, especially in AR headsets, to increase users' situational awareness. We conducted a Systematic Literature Review to research how information is currently presented in AR, especially in systems that are being utilized for situational awareness. Comparing current presentations of information to existing design recommendations aided in identifying future areas of design. In addition, this survey further discusses opportunities and challenges in applying AR to increasing users' situational awareness.

Augmented reality (AR) provides enormous potential to improve navigation assistance interfaces by displaying information directly into the user's field of view. In maritime contexts, such AR interfaces could supplement conventional solutions that require users to interpret spatial positions visualized on two-dimensional maps. In order to design useful navigation assistance, it is crucial to understand how egocentric distances of displayed objects are perceived and how different design attributes influence depth estimation. While previous research mainly focused on depth perception in indoor environments and rather short distances, this paper presents an investigation of the perceived egocentric distance of virtual objects in distances up to 75 meters in an open outdoor environment. In a perceptual matching task experiment using the Microsoft HoloLens 2, participants had to move objects with different (i) shape, (ii) coloration, and (iii) relation to floor to various target distances. Our results suggest that participants overestimated the distance to virtual objects across all tested distances since they significantly underproduced target distances for all investigated design factors. Based on these results, we explored potential design implications for a maritime AR navigation assistance on a ship in the local port area.

We conducted a preliminary study to investigate the impact of the virtual classroom style on cognitive load, spatial awareness, and perceptual responses. We conducted a within-subject study with four different classroom styles. Twenty participants were involved in cognition-demanded tasks while wearing a headset. We found minimal evidence to support that spatial environment design potentially impacts cognitive load and spatial awareness, Based on the findings, our paper discusses the potential of spatial design attributions to enhance learning efficacy in immersive learning experiences.

In this paper we explore whether the uncanny valley effect, which is found for human-like appearances, can also be found for animal-like virtual characters such as virtual robots and other types of virtual animals. In contrast to studies that investigate human-like appearance, there is much less information about the effects concerning how a virtual character's animal-likeness influences their users' perception. In total, 162 participants evaluated six different virtual panda designs in an online questionnaire. Participants were asked to rate different panda faces in terms of their familiarity, commonality, naturalness, attractiveness, interestingness, and animateness. The results show that a robot animal is perceived as less familiar, common, attractive, and natural. The robot animal is interesting and animate to users, but no big differences with the other images are found. We propose future applications for the human-(animal) robot interaction as tutorial agents in videogames, virtual reality, simulation robot labs using real-time facial animation.

XR, consisting of Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) together, will be the next general computing platform, dominating our relationship with the digital world for the next 50 years, much as personal computing has dominated the last 50. XR will be the way people work, play, and connect. VR headsets will create deeply immersive new experiences and will enable the richest Metaverse experiences. Always-available AR glasses will be with us when we're on the go, letting us act with extremely low latency and friction, allowing us to use virtual entities of all sorts to annotate our world, share with others, and communicate, and extending our perceptions, memory, and cognition with an Artificial Intelligence (AI) assistant that truly understands our context and our personal needs. Both will be centered around people rather than technology, allowing us to connect more strongly than ever before, and providing a contextually personalized interface that is far more intuitive and natural than anything that exists today. However, VR and particularly AR are at a very early stage, and need a great deal of innovation and development, across multiple technologies, before they can offer the level of performance that would cause billions of people to make XR a part of their everyday lives. Those technologies include optics, projectors, display systems, graphics, audio, hand tracking, eye tracking, face tracking, body tracking, world mapping and reconstruction, contextual understanding, sensors, interaction, and AI. VR headsets operate within tight power, weight, and thermal budgets, and AR glasses will need to operate within extraordinarily tight budgets; for AR glasses, the constraints include light weight, very low power, and all-day comfort and all-day operation in a socially acceptable form factor,. Breakthroughs are needed in every one of the areas listed above, and in almost every case, innovative, highly customized semiconductor technologies will be needed to achieve those breakthroughs. This will notably require new materials, miniaturization of the key components, and very-large-scale 3D heterogeneous integration of circuits and systems to create new functions. In addition, specialization at the level of architecture and domain-oriented accelerators, especially with respect to Machine Learning (ML), will be essential, and algorithm optimization will need to evolve in new directions. Finally, the challenges of AR can only be solved by true co-design of hardware and software; technology development will need to be driven from end to end, based on delivering important use cases with a full-system approach. This will create unforeseen opportunities and challenges for semiconductor technologies for decades to come.

Proactive ergonomics can improve the overall performance and well-being of the user and has the potential to improve the product quality and reduce the cost of resources. Application of Digital Human Modeling (DHM) is a pathway for proactive ergonomics. However, DHM has the issue of fidelity and it is yet not in the level of simulating human perceptions and emotions accurately. In this study, we have proposed an ergonomics approach that is used to infuse human factor engineering (HFE) guidelines during the early design process. The approach utilizes Virtual Reality (VR), Computer Aided Design (CAD) objects, and human-subjects to proactively filter design ideas, during the conceptualization phase, before functional prototypes are built. A comparative study between full computational prototyping and mixed prototype using VR is performed by (a) designing cockpit packaging and (b) assessing human performance during a fire in cockpit emergency situation. It is found that the cockpit design based on the two prototyping strategies provide similar outcomes. However, the computational prototyping approach is more suitable in design space exploration and the mixed prototyping is more relevant for communicating design ideas. Further, it is found that the computational prototyping approach cannot simulate the change in human performance due to emergency whereas the mixed prototype is able to simulate the change in human performance due to the emergency situations.

The main aim of the CASTLE (Cabin System Design Towards Passenger Wellbeing) European project is to deliver innovative interiors solutions that maximize the comfort and wellbeing of passengers in the next future. To achieve such objective, an effective HCD (Human Centred Design) approach has been employed to derive a Human Response Model based on a holistic assessment of comfort. The overall methodology has been conceived to provide different tools and methods to collect data on the impact that the design of each cabin item has on the user from the earliest design stages. One of these tools is represented by using 3D virtual mock-ups to capture data on the user's perception and to rate the level of appreciation inspired by the specific design. In this paper we present the experimental procedures and the results from a preliminary experimental campaign of Human in the loop simulations in Virtual/Augmented Reality of a Regional Aircraft.

The development of embodied Virtual Reality (VR) systems involves multiple central design choices. These design choices affect the user perception and therefore require thorough consideration. This article reports on two user studies investigating the influence of common design choices on relevant intermediate factors (sense of embodiment, presence, motivation, activation, and task load) in a VR application for physical exercises. The first study manipulated the avatar fidelity (abstract, partial body vs. anthropomorphic, full-body) and the environment (with vs. without mirror). The second study manipulated the avatar type (healthy vs. injured) and the environment type (beach vs. hospital) and, hence, the avatar-environment congruence. The full-body avatar significantly increased the sense of embodiment and decreased mental demand. Interestingly, the mirror did not influence the dependent variables. The injured avatar significantly increased the temporal demand. The beach environment significantly reduced the tense activation. On the beach, participants felt more present in the incongruent condition embodying the injured avatar.

In this study, we propose the use of virtual urban field studies (VUFS) through context-based interface prototypes for evaluating the interaction design of auditory interfaces. Virtual field tests use mixed-reality technologies to combine the fidelity of real-world testing with the affordability and speed of testing in the lab. In this paper, we apply this concept to rapidly test sound designs for autonomous vehicle (AV)-pedestrian interaction with a high degree of realism and fidelity. We also propose the use of psychometrically validated measures of presence in validating the verisimilitude of VUFS. Using mixed qualitative and quantitative methods, we analysed users' perceptions of presence in our VUFS prototype and the relationship to our prototype's effectiveness. We also examined the use of higher-order ambisonic spatialised audio and its impact on presence. Our results provide insights into how VUFS can be designed to facilitate presence as well as design guidelines for how this can be leveraged.

Our primary objective is to enable effective game based learning approaches in tangible augmented reality. In game based learning there is often a tradeoff in motivation between the educational aspects and game aspects. For example, consider our previous work - a tangible augmented reality application for passive solar energy education (AR-SEE), in which users learn about the science behind architectural design by interacting with a tangible model house and an augmented reality-based visualization of energy transfer within the house. This research extends AR-SEE to begin to convert this educational simulation into an effective educational game by introducing gaming elements, such as interactive virtual humans. Although it is known that AR-SEE does enable learning, it is unknown how the addition of interactive virtual humans will affect user perception of temperature data and learning. In this paper, the goal was to compare user perception of two approaches to temperature data visualization in in tangible augmented reality on mobile phones: 1) the current particle-based visualization (Le., based on the science of energy transfer) and 2) novel virtual human-based visualizations. The game was intended for high school students. However, as a preliminary study, we conducted a user study with 27 3rd and 4th year architecture students that compared these two visualization approaches and their impact on temperature estimation, motivation, and perceived learning effectiveness. In the future, we plan to integrate this game into high school curricula.

When walking within a CAVE-like system, accommodation distance, parallax, and angular resolution vary according to the distance between the user and the projection walls, which can alter spatial perception. As these systems get bigger, there is a need to assess the main factors influencing spatial perception in order to better design immersive projection systems and virtual reality applications. In this paper, we present two experiments that analyze distance perception when considering the distance toward the projection screens and parallax as main factors. Both experiments were conducted in a large immersive projection system with up to 10-meter interaction space. The first experiment showed that both the screen distance and parallax have a strong asymmetric effect on distance judgments. We observed increased underestimation for positive parallax conditions and slight distance overestimation for negative and zero parallax conditions. The second experiment further analyzed the factors contributing to these effects and confirmed the observed effects of the first experiment with a high-resolution projection setup providing twice the angular resolution and improved accommodative stimuli. In conclusion, our results suggest that space is the most important characteristic for distance perception, optimally requiring about 6- to 7-meter distance around the user, and virtual objects with high demands on accurate spatial perception should be displayed at zero or negative parallax.

This paper describes an investigation of the types of problems that may be experienced by Virtual Reality (VR) users. Initial concerns have been voiced about various issues concerning the design of VR equipment, particularly the physical ergonomics of head-mounted displays (HMDs) and hand-held input devices, and the problems associated with display resolution and lags. This study investigated a number of VR users' perceptions of the types of physical ergonomics issues that they were aware of when participating in a number of different virtual environments (VEs), using different VR systems. Several different methods were employed, including questionnaires, body mapping, user observation and interviews. Issues highlighted as either causing participants discomfort or interfering with their experience of the VE were: discomfort from static posture requirements, general discomfort from wearing the HMD, difficulty becoming accustomed to 3D hand held input devices, dissatisfaction with deficits in the visual display and fear of getting 'tangled' in connecting cables. The implications of these findings for developers, implementers and users of VR are discussed. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

This paper explores the rise of paranoid perception. It reasons that in recent years, a distinctly paranoid and conspiratorial understanding of reality has emerged in mainstream society, one that brings opportunities and implications for mixed, alternate and augmented reality experiences, particularly in the realm of games. In discussing paranoia, this paper does not denote clinical paranoia, but rather the widely observed cultural tendency towards conspiracy thinking that has influenced mainstream understandings of reality, and in turn, represents opportunities for hybrid reality experiences. This paper does not aim to explain the reasons behind the presence of paranoid perception or to assess its validity or truth-value, but instead aims to recognise the pervasiveness of the phenomenon and to explore how it is being applied in hybrid reality games.

Virtual robots, including virtual animals, are expected to play a major role within affective and aesthetic interfaces, serious games, video instruction, and the personalization of educational instruction. Their actual impact, however, will very much depend on user perception of virtual characters as the uncanny valley hypothesis has shown that the design of virtual characters determines user experiences. In this article, we investigated whether the uncanny valley effect, which has already been found for the human-like appearance of virtual characters, can also be found for animal-like appearances. We conducted an online study (N = 163) in which six different animal designs were evaluated in terms of the following properties: familiarity, commonality, naturalness, attractiveness, interestingness, and animateness. The study participants differed in age (under 10-60 years) and origin (Europe, Asia, North America, and South America). For the evaluation of the results, we ranked the animal-likeness of the character using both expert opinion and participant judgments. Next to that, we investigated the effect of movement and morbidity. The results confirm the existence of the uncanny valley effect for virtual animals, especially with respect to familiarity and commonality, for both still and moving images. The effect was particularly pronounced for morbid images. For naturalness and attractiveness, the effect was only present in the expert-based ranking, but not in the participant-based ranking. No uncanny valley effect was detected for interestingness and animateness. This investigation revealed that the appearance of virtual animals directly affects user perception and thus, presumably, impacts user experience when used in applied settings.

Virtual reality, since being a new form of architectural representation; when compared to traditional forms of representations, is a medium of representation which the narrative techniques are still in the process of developing. In traditional forms of representation, the viewer is actively directed in both the navigation and view, while in the architectural representations in the virtual reality medium, the viewer who now becomes the user, is left to her/his own personal decisions. Hence, the examples produced in the field of virtual reality are less successful in conveying spatial narratives than in traditional types of representation. In this study, a method has been proposed to develop the representation possibilities of the virtual reality environment by using the denotative and connotative meaning creation techniques of cinema. In the proposed method, meaning creation techniques of the cinema were used together with the interaction element of virtual reality, which is its most unique facility. By using the lighting technique between the denotative and connotative meaning creation methods of the cinema dynamically in the virtual reality medium according to the user interaction, introducing a spatial narrative to the user is directed. The discovery of the narrative possibilities of the virtual reality environment will enable it to be used more effectively as an architectural representation and moreover it will ensure this medium to be accepted as a new genre of art production.

Currently, immersive virtual environments (IVE) are widely used in fields such as architecture and environmental psychology. These simulated environments allow for a detailed evaluation of how different designs impact users' perception and interaction with the built environment, under controlled conditions and without incurring high costs. The validity of these IVEs is related to their capacity to evoke a participant's response similar to that of the space they are simulating. This paper presents a validation study of a virtual classroom with two phases: the analysis of the sense of presence in the generated IVE and the comparison of the psychological and neurophysiological response of subjects in the two environments (physical vs. IVE). The psychological response captures cognitive processes via the performance of attention and memory tasks. The physiological response records the subject's activity monitored via electroencephalogram, electrocardiogram, and electrodermal activity. The results showed that the psychological and physiological responses in both environments (physical vs. IVE) were similar. This may be of interest to architecture researchers and professionals as they validate IVE systems as tools to study the effects of the built environment on users' cognitive responses.

Haptic gloves have enabled the immersive and realistic sense of interacting with objects in virtual reality (VR) by providing coordinated haptic sensation with visual information. However, previous approaches mainly focused on providing feedback on the fingertips or distal phalanges, with minimal attention paid to the other phalanges. We propose EStatiG, a haptic glove that delivers force feedback over all finger regions from the fingertip to the proximal phalanges. Here, we enrich the perception of object shape during grasping tasks in VR. To do this, we developed the double layer and multi-stacked electrostatic clutches (ES clutches) to form an electrostatic brake (ES brake) for each phalanx. With the lightweight structure (130 grams), we enabled high-resolution force feedback while maintaining wearability and usability. We validated the user perception performance when using the proposed device. Our results showed a significant improvement in the perception of phalanx angle positions and the overall experience of realism and immersion when interacting with various object shapes in VR.

Research on smart device privacy has consistently highlighted how privacy is an important concern for users, but they fail to act on their concerns. While this discrepancy between user perceptions and actions has been consistently reported, currently there is a limited understanding of why this is the case or how the situation can be ameliorated. This paper systematically studies how visualizations in privacy assistants can improve the situation, reporting on two studies that explore the users' privacy perceptions in smart device ecosystems. The first study shows that displaying device location and data type reduces the users' privacy perceptions. Participants also weigh the use of media such as online news as a source to inform users about the possible inferences. The second study analyzes participants' preferences to visualize smart device information and privacy policies using augmented reality. Through these two studies, we derive insights and guidelines on how to design effective privacy assistants and to improve user's knowledge of risks associated with data disclosure in smart home scenarios.

Head tracking in head-mounted displays (HMDs) enables users to explore a 360-degree virtual scene with free head movements. However, for seated use of HMDs such as users sitting on a chair or a couch, physically turning around 360-degree is not possible. Redirection techniques decouple tracked physical motion and virtual motion, allowing users to explore virtual environments with more flexibility. In seated situations with only head movements available, the difference of stimulus might cause the detection thresholds of rotation gains to differ from that of redirected walking. Therefore we present an experiment with a two-alternative forced-choice (2AFC) design to compare the thresholds for seated and standing situations. Results indicate that users are unable to discriminate rotation gains between 0.89 and 1.28, a smaller range compared to the standing condition. We further treated head amplification as an interaction technique and found that a gain of 2.5, though not a hard threshold, was near the largest gain that users consider applicable. Overall, our work aims to better understand human perception of rotation gains in seated VR and the results provide guidance for future design choices of its applications.

The intersection of computer science and art has sparked a wave of innovation, particularly in digital visualizations and interactive installations. This abstract explores the symbiotic relationship between these disciplines, highlighting groundbreaking advancements and creative endeavors. Innovations in digital visualizations leverage algorithms and computational techniques to transform data into visually engaging representations. From intricate data sculptures to immersive virtual reality experiences, computer scientists and artists collaborate to push the boundaries of storytelling and communication. These visualizations not only convey complex information effectively but also evoke emotional responses, bridging the gap between technology and human perception. Interactive installations blur the lines between audience and artwork, inviting participation and engagement. Through sensors, augmented reality, and responsive environments, users become active participants in the creation of art, shaping and influencing their experiences in real-time. This dynamic interaction fosters new forms of expression and challenges traditional notions of artistic production. By exploring the intersection of computer science and art, this abstract underscores the transformative power of interdisciplinary collaboration. Through experimentation, exploration, and innovation, digital visualizations and interactive installations continue to redefine the possibilities of creative expression in the digital age.

Depth perception, the ability to interpret an opponent's punches in terms of timing and distance, is fundamental for novice boxer training. Traditional methods rely on coach support and teamwork, leading to a high entry barrier for novice boxers to train whenever or wherever. To address this, we propose an immersive training system using virtual reality (VR) that integrates visual and audio guidance, specifically designed to enhance depth perception in boxing for novice boxers. Our rigorous experiment shows significant improvements in accuracy and reaction time. We introduce the system to professional boxing coaches, enabling them to integrate a systematic approach to training novice boxers' depth perception.

Spatial orientation is a complex ability that emerges from the interaction of several systems in a way that is still unclear. One of the reasons limiting the research on the topic is the lack of methodologies aimed at studying multimodal psychophysics in an ecological manner and with affordable settings. Virtual reality can provide a workaround to this impasse by using virtual stimuli rather than real ones. However, the available virtual reality development platforms are not meant for psychophysical testing; therefore, using them as such can be very difficult for newcomers, especially the ones new to coding. For this reason, we developed SALLO, the Suite for the Assessment of Low-Level cues on Orientation, which is a suite of utilities that simplifies assessing the psychophysics of multimodal spatial orientation in virtual reality. The tools in it cover all the fundamental steps to design a psychophysical experiment. Plus, dedicated tracks guide the users in extending the suite components to simplify developing new experiments. An experimental use-case used SALLO and virtual reality to show that the head posture affects both the egocentric and the allocentric mental representations of spatial orientation. Such a use-case demonstrated how SALLO and virtual reality can be used to accelerate hypothesis testing concerning the psychophysics of spatial orientation and, more broadly, how the community of researchers in the field may benefit from such a tool to carry out their investigations.

Collaborative virtual environments for diagnosis and treatment planning are increasingly gaining importance in our global society. Virtual and Augmented Reality approaches promised to provide valuable means for the involved interactive data analysis, but the underlying technologies still create a cumbersome work environment that is inadequate for clinical employment. This paper addresses two of the shortcomings of such technology: Intuitive interaction with multi-dimensional data in immersive and semi-immersive environments as well as stereoscopic multiuser displays combining the advantages of Virtual and Augmented Reality technology.

The use of human figures throughout the design process enables designers to experience, communicate, and evaluate design concepts. Earlier studies of architectural representation sought to identify the relationship between the tools and techniques of representation and how individuals perceive architectural scenes. Nonetheless, the effect of virtual human representation (VHR) on students' perceptions of architectural space remains underexplored. Therefore, an experimental study was conducted with first-year architecture students, in which they experienced three architectural scenes (non-presence of VHR, presence of idle VHR, and presence of animated VHR). Statistical analyses of the students' self-assessments examined how the inclusion of VHRs in digitally visualized architectural spaces influenced the perceptions of these spaces. The study revealed that incorporating VHR into representations of architectural spaces positively affected the students' sense of physical dimensions and of the spatial qualities.

Voluble is a dynamic space-time diagram of the solar system. Voluble is designed to help users understand the relationship between space and time in the motion of the planets around the sun. Voluble is set in virtual reality to relate these movements to our experience of immediate space. Beyond just the visual, understanding dynamic systems is naturally associated to the articulation of our bodies as we perform a number of complex calculations, albeit unconsciously, to deal with simple tasks. Such capabilities encompass spatial perception and memory. Voluble investigates the balance between the visually abstract and the spatially figurative in immersive development to help illuminate phenomena that are beyond the reach of human scale and time. While most diagrams, even computer-based interactive ones, are flat, three-dimensional real-time virtual reality representations are closer to our experience of space. The representation can be seen as if it was "really there," engaging a larger number of cues pertaining to our everyday spatial experience.

In this research, a blind area information perception and guidance approach for dynamic context is proposed as a solution to the issue of difficult and time-consuming assembly in blind areas. The proposed approach involves the utilization of real-time RGBD data to perceive both blind area context and operator hand information. The resulting data is then used to visualize the blind area scene and provide assembly guidance through the application of augmented reality technology. Unlike conventional methods, the proposed solutions are based on dynamic RGBD data rather than static predefined CAD models, making it simpler to configure and adapt to more scenarios. A user study was designed and conducted to confirm the feasibility of the suggested approach. The results indicate that the suggested approach can decrease assembly time by 49.5%, greatly lower the percentage of assembly errors, reduce the mental load on the workers, and significantly enhance their operational experience.

This paper is focused on the development of a haptic vest to enhance immersion and realism in virtual environments, through vibrotactile feedback. The first steps to achieve touch-based communication are presented in order to set an actuation method based on vibration motors. Resulting vibrotactile patterns helping users to move inside virtual reality (VR). The research investigates human torso resolution and perception of vibration patterns, evaluating different kind of actuators at different locations on the vest. Finally, determining an appropriate distribution of vibration patterns allowed the generation of sensations that, for instance, help to guide in a mixed or virtual reality environment.

Virtual reality is a rapidly growing technological innovation that continues to garner attention for use in education. This self-study of two teacher educators spans immersive head-mounted virtual reality implementation from 2014-2023 with middle-grades students, preservice teachers, and adult learners. Empirical data sources include learner perceptions and researcher generated teaching vignettes and reflective diaries. Framed by a systems thinking approach to design, results highlight the experiences and growing insights during each of the four chronologically ordered implementation phases. Phase one emphasizes the responsibility of project constituents and lack of organizational support. Phase two highlights the ripening of education virtual reality resources and adapting pedagogy to learner characteristics. Phase three explains the application and transfer within a new context. Phase four encapsulates shifts among external factors with a desire to improve performance needs. Findings compare and contrast education virtual reality with entertainment virtual reality, to advance instructional design and development to improve learning. Insights and practical recommendations apply to teacher educators, educational technologists, and computer scientists.

This paper investigates the effect of avatar appearance on Social Presence and users' perception in an Augmented Reality (AR) telepresence system. Despite the development of various commercial 3D telepresence systems, there has been little evaluation and discussions about the appearance of the collaborator's avatars. We conducted two user studies comparing the effect of avatar appearances with three levels of body part visibility (head & hands, upper body, and whole body) and two different character styles (realistic and cartoon-like) on Social Presence while performing two different remote collaboration tasks. We found that a realistic whole body avatar was perceived as being the best for remote collaboration, but an upper body or cartoon style could be considered as a substitute depending on the collaboration context. We discuss these results and suggest guidelines for designing future avatar-mediated AR remote collaboration systems.

Facilities Management (FM) day-to-day tasks require suitable methods to facilitate work orders and improve performance by better collaboration between the office and the field. Building Information Modeling (BIM) provides opportunities to support collaboration and to improve the efficiency of Computerized Maintenance Management Systems (CMMSs) by sharing building information between different applications/users throughout the lifecycle of the facility. However, manual retrieval of building element information can be challenging and time consuming for field workers during FM operations. Mixed Reality (MR) is a visualization technique that can be used to improve visual perception of the facility by superimposing 3D virtual objects and textual information on top of the view of real-world building objects. This paper discusses the development of a collaborative BIM-based MR approach to support facilities field tasks. The proposed framework integrates multisource facilities information, BIM models, and feature-based tracking in an MR-based setting to retrieve information based on time (e.g. inspection schedule) and the location of the field worker, visualize inspection and maintenance operations, and support remote collaboration and visual communication between the field worker and the manager at the office. The field worker uses an Augmented Reality (AR) application installed on his/her tablet. The manager at the office uses an Immersive Augmented Virtuality (IAV) application installed on a desktop computer. Based on the field worker location, as well as the inspection or maintenance schedule, the field worker is given work orders and instructions from the office. Other sensory data (e.g., infrared thermography) can provide additional layers of information by augmenting the actual view of the field worker and supporting him/her in making effective decisions about existing and potential problems while communicating with the office in an Interactive Virtual Collaboration (IVC) mode. Finally, to investigate the applicability of the proposed method, a prototype system is developed and tested in a case study. Z8 0

The use of virtual reality (VR) has seen significant recent growth and presents opportunities for use in many domain areas. The use of head-mounted displays (HMDs) also presents unique opportunities for the implementation of audio feedback congruent with head and body movements, thus matching intuitive expectations. However, the use of audio in VR is still undervalued and there is a lack of consistency within audio-centedd research in VR. To address this shortcoming and present an overview of this area of research, we conducted a scoping review (n = 121) focusing on the use of audio in HMD-based VR and its effects on user/player experience. Results show a lack of standardisation for common measures such as pleasantness and emphasize the context-specific ability of audio to influence a variety of affective, cognitive, and motivational measures, but are mixed for presence and generally lacking for social experiences and descriptive research.

Virtual reality (VR) technology has made remarkable progress in recent years and will be widely used in the future. As a bridge for information exchanges between users and VR systems, the interaction interface is pivotal for providing users with a good experience and has emerged as a key research focus. In this review, we conducted a comprehensive search of the Web of Science and CNKI databases from 2011 to 2023 to identify articles dedicated to VR interaction interface design. Through a meticulous analysis of 438 articles, this paper offers a substantial contribution to the emerging field of VR interactive interface research, providing an in-depth review of the principal research advancements. This review revealed that the majority of studies are centered on practical case analyses within specific application scenarios, employing empirical evaluation methods to assess objective or subjective metrics. We then concentrated on elucidating the foundational principles of interface design and their evaluation methodologies, providing a reference for future research endeavors. Additionally, the limitations, challenges, and future directions in VR interaction interface design research were discussed, highlighting the need for further research in design evaluation to continuously refine the development of standards and guidelines for VR interactive interface design. According to the findings of this review, there is a necessity to enhance research on information design for multi-channel interactive interfaces. Furthermore, it is essential to focus on the diverse characteristics of users to propose more inclusive design solutions. Adopting interdisciplinary approaches could lead to breakthroughs in the creation of personalized and adaptive VR interaction interfaces. Z8 0

Recently, haptic devices have been successfully incorporated into the human-computer interaction model. However, a drawback common to almost all haptic systems is that the user must be attached to the haptic device at all times, even though force feedback is not always being rendered. This constant contact hinders perception of the virtual environment, primarily because it prevents the user from feeling new tactile sensations upon contact with virtual objects. We present the design and implementation of an augmented reality system called VisHap that uses visual tracking to seamlessly integrate force feedback with tactile feedback to generate a "complete" haptic experience. The VisHap framework allows the user to interact with combinations of virtual and real objects naturally, thereby combining active and passive haptics. An example application of this framework is also presented. The flexibility and extensibility of our framework is promising in that it supports many interaction modes and allows further integration with other augmented reality systems.

In order to design a successful human-agent-interaction, knowledge about the effects of a virtual agent's behavior is important. Therefore, the presented study aims to investigate the effect of different nonverbal behavior on the agent's person perception with a focus on dominance and cooperativity. An online study with 190 participants was conducted to evaluate the effect of different nonverbal behaviors. 23 nonverbal behaviors of four different experimental conditions (dominant, submissive, cooperative and non-cooperative behavior) were compared. Results emphasize that, indeed, nonverbal behavior is powerful to affect users' person perception. Data analyses reveal symbolic gestures such as crossing the arms, stemming the hands on the hip or touching one's neck to most effectively influence dominance perception. Regarding perceived cooperativity expressivity has the most pronounced effect.

The photo-based immersive virtual environment (IVE) has become an increasingly popular method to deliver spatial experiences because it provides users with a high sense of presence and interactivity. However, there is still a lack of empirical evidence on the degree of realism of spatial experiences. Thus, the present study aims to investigate the reality of photo-based IVE spatial experience. We recruited 74 participants and conducted surveys to compare a photo-based IVE, conventional methods, and actual visit in terms of the spatial information and appraisal of the space. The results indicated that the users' impression of the space in the photo-based IVE was similar to that in the real space because of a high sense of presence, but they less accurately recall the specific physical characteristics of the space owing to high cognitive load. The findings of the present study contribute to the understanding of spatial experiences via photo-based IVE.

During the last decades, virtual reality (VR) has been devoted to supporting research in the architecture, engineering, and construction sectors because of its ability to provide multisensory three-dimensional (3D) environments. However, the use of immersive virtual environments (IVEs) in the design of the built environment is still in its infancy, and it is limited to visually designed spaces. In addition, a fundamental challenge lies in improving the sense of hearing. The effective simulation of the built environment with an overall realistic perception will support designers when identifying the influence of design decisions and building acoustics on individuals, therefore, properly designing acoustic strategies. In this study, five disrupting sound sources were selected to create a binaural soundtrack that was integrated within a virtual office environment to evaluate the effectiveness of the model (i.e., ecological validity) and the effects of acoustics on user comfort and cognitive performance (i.e., criterion validity). Independent measure design research was employed. In total, 104 participants performed working memory, inhibition, and task-switching tests under quiet (Q) or noise (N) conditions when the indoor air temperature remained constant. The results showed that the modeled virtual office created an excellent level of presence and immersivity with no significant cybersickness disorders (i.e., ecological validity). Ambient noise disrupted work efficiency with a relevant decrease in performance in each cognitive test (i.e., criterion validity). The sound environment was assessed as uncomfortable, chaotic, and boring. In addition, it negatively impacted the subjects' thermal comfort vote (TCV). These results suggested the adequacy of IVE when providing an accurate representation of the variables measured; therefore, it supported effective user-centered design analysis and strategies.

Our memories and past experiences contribute to guiding our perception and action of future affective experiences. Virtual Reality (VR) experiences are more vividly memorized and recalled than non-VR ones, but there is little research on how to detect this recall in VR. We investigate the feasibility of recognizing autobiographical memory (AM) recall in VR using physiological cues: skin conductance, heart-rate variability, eye gaze, and pupillary response. We devised a methodology replicating an existing AM Test in VR. We conducted a user study with 20 participants recalling AM using three valence categories cue words: positive, negative, and neutral. We found a significant effect of AM recalls on EDA peak, and eye blink rate, with a generalized recognition accuracy of 77.1% and person dependent accuracy of up to 95.1%. This shows a promising approach for detecting AM recall in VR and we discuss the implications for VR experience design.

Virtual reality (VR) platforms provide their users with immersive virtual environments, but disconnect them from real-world events. The increasing length of VR sessions can therefore be expected to boost users' needs to obtain information about external occurrences such as message arrival. Yet, how and when to present these real-world notifications to users engaged in VR activities remains underexplored. We conducted an experiment to investigate individuals' receptivity during four VR activities (Loading, 360 Video, Treasure Hunt, Rhythm Game) to message notifications delivered using three types of displays (head-mounted, controller, and movable panel). While higher engagement generally led to higher perceptions that notifications were ill-timed and/or disruptive, the suitability of notification displays to VR activities was influenced by the time-sensitiveness of VR content, overlapping use of modalities for delivering alerts, the display locations, and a requirement that the display be moved for notifications to be seen. Specific design suggestions are also provided.

Virtual reality technology can be considered a multipurpose tool for diverse applications in various domains, for example, training, prototyping, design, entertainment, and research investigating human perception. However, for many of these applications, it is necessary that the designed and computer-generated virtual environments are perceived as a replica of the real world. Many research studies have shown that this is not necessarily the case. Specifically, egocentric distances are underestimated compared to real-world estimates regardless of whether the virtual environment is displayed in a head-mounted display or on an immersive large-screen display. While the main reason for this observed distance underestimation is still unknown, we investigate a potential approach to reduce or even eliminate this distance underestimation. Building up on the angle of declination below the horizon relationship for perceiving egocentric distances, we describe how eye height manipulations in virtual reality should affect perceived distances. In addition, we describe how this relationship could be exploited to reduce distance underestimation for individual users. In a first experiment, we investigate the influence of a manipulated eye height on an action-based measure of egocentric distance perception. We found that eye height manipulations have similar predictable effects on an action-based measure of egocentric distance as we previously observed for a cognitive measure. This might make this approach more useful than other proposed solutions across different scenarios in various domains, for example, for collaborative tasks. In three additional experiments, we investigate the influence of an individualized manipulation of eye height to reduce distance underestimation in a sparse-cue and a rich-cue environment. In these experiments, we demonstrate that a simple eye height manipulation can be used to selectively alter perceived distances on an individual basis, which could be helpful to enable every user to have an experience close to what was intended by the content designer.

Interaction between people and virtual characters through digital and electronic devices is a reality. In this context, the design of virtual characters must incorporate emotional expression at a nonverbal level looking for effective communication with the user. This exploratory study investigates the design features of an avatar functioning as a virtual assistant in educational contexts. From a multidisciplinary approach, the user's research was elaborated by a semi-open questionnaire of self-perception of emotional characteristics: likeability, attractiveness, and applicability of a set of six 2D and 3D characters. The results extracted from a sample of 69 university students provide a relevant information on design features and open new lines for future research. Aspects such as Ekman's basic emotion discrimination and the design of facial expression are analyzed. The incorporation of other body parts, their spatial orientation and contextual elements, seems to contribute to effective emotional communication. The results also highlight how the design of a virtual character should take into consideration the complexity involved in facial gestures and changes in relation to the vertical axis and planes of movement. Finally, this article discusses the complexity involved in expressing a given emotion in a virtual character.

Workplace layout design by itself is time consuming and costly. There is evidence that human perception of interaction with real and virtual objects is indistinguishable in some instances. In this work, a virtual CNC workplace environment is developed which is accessible through the web. Through this environment, a user who has no experience on machining could learn the CNC operation method by interactively driving the virtual machine. The model enables testing the influence of variations in lighting, distance from machines, and the presence of a virtual human on human perception. By collecting and analyzing the perception data in terms safety, it provides decision basis for improving facility design and reduce hazards in the workplace.

Virtual reality (VR) applications are transforming the way architecture is conceived and produced. By introducing an open and inclusive approach, they encourage a creative dialogue with the users Of residential schemes and other buildings and allow competitionjuries a more thorough understanding of architectural concepts. Architects need to heed the dynamics set in motion by these technologies, especially how laypersons interpret buildings, forms and their simulations in interactive VR environments. The article presents a study that compares aspects of spatial perception in a physical environment versus two virtual ones, the CAVE and the Panorama. In a report, statistical analysis, and discussion of the results, the paper addresses three hypothetical assertions: (1) depth perception in different, physical reality and its virtual representations in the CAVE and Panorama are quantifiably different, (2) differences are attributable to prior contextual experience of the viewer, and (3) spatial ability is an important contributing factor. Results in the two virtual environments tested show consistent,differences in how depth and shape are perceived, indicating that VR context is a significant variable in spatial representation. It is asserted that perception of shape and distance display fundamental conditions of the CAVE and Panorama.

This study examined how users acquire spatial knowledge in an onscreen three-dimensional virtual environment when using overview maps. This experiment adopted a three (the size of overview maps) x two (the transparency of overview maps) between-subjects design. Three levels of the size of overview maps were evaluated, i.e., 1/2, 1/8, and 1/16 screen size. Comparisons between 20% transparent and 80% transparent were made. We asked 108 participants to complete spatial perception tasks and fill out questionnaires regarding their feelings. The results indicate the following: (1) The effects of the transparency of overview maps on users' spatial perception vary with the size of overview maps. The 80% transparent overview map is significantly more efficient than the 20% transparent overview map in the condition of 1/2 screen size. However, the result is opposite in the condition of 1/8 screen size. (2) Users like the 80% transparent overview map significantly better than the 20% transparent overview map in the condition of 1/2 screen size. (3) Concerning subjective evaluations of satisfaction, preference, and system usability, overview maps in the condition of 1/8 screen size are significantly better than those in the condition of 1/2 screen size.

Ungrounded haptic devices for virtual reality (VR) applications lack the ability to convincingly render the sensations of a grasped virtual object's rigidity and weight. We present Grabity, a wearable haptic device designed to simulate kinesthetic pad opposition grip forces and weight for grasping virtual objects in VR. The device is mounted on the index finger and thumb and enables precision grasps with a wide range of motion. A unidirectional brake creates rigid grasping force feedback. Two voice coil actuators create virtual force tangential to each finger pad through asymmetric skin deformation. These forces can be perceived as gravitational and inertial forces of virtual objects. The rotational orientation of the voice coil actuators is passively aligned with the real direction of gravity through a revolute joint, causing the virtual forces to always point downward. This paper evaluates the performance of Grabity through two user studies, finding promising ability to simulate different levels of weight with convincing object rigidity. The first user study shows that Grabity can convey various magnitudes of weight and force sensations to users by manipulating the amplitude of the asymmetric vibration. The second user study shows that users can differentiate different weights in a virtual environment using Grabity.

Simulating accurate weight forces in Virtual Reality (VR) is an unsolved challenge. Therefore, providing real weight sensations by transferring liquid mass has emerged as a promising approach. However, key objectives conceptually interfere with each other. In particular, previous designs that support a high range of weight or high flow rate lack mobility. In this work, we present MobileGravity, a system, that decouples the weight-changing object from the liquid supply and the pump. It enables weight changes of up to 1 kg at a rate of 235 g/s and allows the user to walk around freely. Through a study with 30 participants, we show that the system enables users to perceive the weight of different virtual objects and enhances realism, as well as enjoyment.

The advancement of Augmented Reality (AR) technology has been remarkable, enabling the augmentation of user perception with timely information. This progress holds great promise in the field of interaction design. However, the mere advancement of technology is not enough to ensure widespread adoption. The user dimension has been somewhat overlooked in AR research due to a lack of attention to user motivations, needs, usability, and perceived value. The critical aspects of AR technology tend to be overshadowed by the technology itself. To ensure appropriate future assessments, it is necessary to thoroughly examine and categorize all the methods used for AR technology validation. By identifying and classifying these evaluation methods, researchers and practitioners will be better equipped to develop and validate new AR techniques and applications. Therefore, comprehensive and systematic evaluations are critical to the advancement and sustainability of AR technology. This paper presents a theoretical framework derived from a cluster analysis of the most efficient evaluation methods for AR extracted from 399 papers. Evaluation methods were clustered according to the application domains and the human-computer interaction aspects to be investigated. This framework should facilitate rapid development cycles prioritizing user requirements, ultimately leading to groundbreaking interaction methods accessible to a broader audience beyond research and development centers.

This paper presents three psychophysical experiments that attempt to determine whether human perception of force amplitude is isotropic in a Virtual Environment (VE). Participants employed passive or active forces in the same or different directions. Our results indicate that, regardless of whether stimulus presentation and response are active or passive, human perception of force amplitude is in fact anisotropic. Implications of these results for design of VR systems are briefly discussed.

Interactive, multi-user experiences are meant to define the present and future of Virtual Reality (VR). Such immersive experiences will typically consist of remote collaborations where content is streamed and/or synchronized over a network connection. Thus, real-time collaboration will be key. In this light, the responsiveness of the system and the network will define the overall experience. As such, understanding the effect of network distortions, especially related to time delay, on end-user's perception (in terms of Quality-of-Experience (QoE)), performance, and collaboration becomes crucial. The existing literature, however, has mostly focused on network requirements from a system point-of-view, where the key performance parameters are only provided in the form of Quality-of-Service (QoS) parameters (such as end-to-end latency). However, the translation of these network impairments to the end-user experience is often omitted. The purpose of this paper is to fill the gap by providing a thorough investigation of the impact of latency on the perception of users while performing collaborative tasks in multi-user VR. To this end, an experimental framework was designed, developed, and tested. It is based on a multi-device synchronizing architecture, enabling two simultaneous users to work together in a gamified virtual environment. The developed test environment also allows for the identification of the most prominent network requirements and objective analysis for each traffic link. To experimentally investigate the impact of latency on user perception, a user study was conducted. Participants were paired and asked to perform the collaborative task under different latency-prone scenarios. The results show that users are able to easily distinguish between distorted and non-distorted network configurations. However, making a distinction between different manifestations of latency is much less straightforward. Moreover, factors such as the user's role in the experience and the required task, and the level of interactivity and movement have an important influence on the subjective level of perception, the strength of the user's preferences, and the occurrence of cybersickness. In contrast, no significant differences in objective metrics, such as system performance and user completion time were observed. These results can support the creation of collective QoE metrics that model the group as a whole rather than each individual separately. As such, this work provides an important step to dynamically counteract any drops in group dynamics and performance by means of smart interventions in the transmission system and/or virtual environment.

When using Augmented Reality (AR) to overlay virtual textures onto real objects, a significant discrepancy between the tactile and visual characteristics of the real objects can cause users to experience dissonance. This study aims to quantitatively determine the acceptable range of differences in surface roughness that do not induce this dissonance. Specifically, it focuses on macro-roughness, characterized by spatial periods of 200 mu m or more. The experiment system employed ensures accurate occlusion between the user's finger and virtual textures, a factor often neglected in most conventional studies. Adopting people occlusion in the AR environment reduces the burden on users, while ensuring that the sense of dissonance is not from occlusion rendering. Two materials were used in the experiments: acrylic and medium density fiberboard. The findings indicate that users are more sensitive to dissonance when the real object is rougher than the virtual texture, compared to the opposite case. Additionally, the friction magnitude between the materials and the user's finger was found to be proportional to the finger pressure applied. Based on this study's quantitative analysis of the visual-haptic interaction in AR environments, it provides a basis for further research on multisensory interactions and its applications, such as AR material design.

Virtual reality (VR) environments are increasingly popular for various applications, and the appearance of virtual characters is a critical factor that influences user behaviors. In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of avatar and agent appearances on pre-touch proxemics in VR. To achieve this goal, we designed experiments utilizing three user avatars (man/woman/robot) and three virtual agents (man/woman/robot). Specifically, we measured the pre-touch reaction distances to the face and body, which are the distances at which a person starts to feel uncomfortable before being touched. We examined how these distances varied based on the appearances of avatars, agents, and user gender. Our results revealed that the appearance of avatars and agents significantly impacted pre-touch reaction distances. Specifically, those using a female avatar tended to maintain larger distances before their face and body to be touched, and people also preferred greater distances before being touched by a robot agent. Interestingly, we observed no effects of user gender on pre-touch reaction distances. These findings have implications for the design and implementation of VR systems, as they suggest that avatar and agent appearances play a significant role in shaping users' perceptions of pre-touch proxemics. Our study highlights the importance of considering these factors when creating immersive and socially acceptable VR experiences.

Haptic cues delivered via wearable devices have great potential to enhance a user's experience by transmitting task information and touch sensations in domains such as virtual reality, teleoperation, and prosthetics. Much is still unknown on how haptic perception, and consequently optimal haptic cue design, varies between individuals. In this work we present three contributions. First, we propose a new metric, the Allowable Stimulus Range (ASR), as a way to capture subject-specific magnitudes for a given cue, using the method of adjustments and the staircase method. Second, we present a modular, grounded, 2-DOF, haptic testbed designed to conduct psychophysical experiments in multiple control schemes and with rapidly-interchangeable haptic interfaces. Third, we demonstrate an application of the testbed and our ASR metric, together with just noticeable differences (JND) measurements, to compare perception of haptic cues delivered via position or force control schemes. Our findings show that users demonstrate higher perceptual resolution in the position-control case, though survey results suggest that force-controlled haptic cues are more comfortable. The results of this work outline a framework to define perceptible and comfortable cue magnitudes for an individual, providing the groundwork to understand haptic variability, and compare the effectiveness of different types of haptic cues.

Featured Application Mixed-reality shopping assistance system for omnichannel retail environments. New digital technologies furnish retail managers with new means to enhance consumer experiences in omnichannel retailing. Conceptual academic literature and industry emphasize the promising use of immersive digital displays and their potential benefits for retailers. In this research, we present the design of a personal shopping assistance system that is based on optical see-through mixed-reality technology. Microsoft HoloLens 2 was leveraged as the archetype to realize this novel system, facilitating consumer information search and decision making. The design incorporates various shopping assistance elements (i.e., product information, reviews, recommendations, product availability, videos, a virtual cart, and an option to buy). Users can interact with these elements with gesture-based inputs to navigate through the interface. A qualitative study with 35 participants was conducted to collect users' feedback and perceptions about the mixed-reality shopping assistant system. Derived from the qualitative feedback, we propose seven design principles that aim to support future designs and developments of mixed-reality shopping applications for head-mounted displays in omnichannel retail: rigor, informativeness, tangibility, summary, comparability, flexibility and holism.

We propose generating two-dimensional skin stretch feedback on the user's legs. Skin stretch is useful cutaneous feedback to induce the perception of virtual textures and illusory forces and to deliver directional cues. This feedback has been applied to the head, body, and upper limbs to simulate rich physical properties in virtual reality (VR). However, how to expand the benefit of skin stretch feedback and apply it to the lower limbs, remains to be explored. Our first two psychophysical studies examined the minimum changes in skin stretch distance and stretch angle that are perceivable by participants. We then designed and implemented Gaiters, a pair of ungrounded, leg-worn devices, each of which is able to generate multiple two-dimensional skin stretches on skin of the user's leg. With Gaiters, we conducted an exploratory study to understand participants' experiences when coupling skin stretch patterns with various lower limb actions. The results indicate that rich haptic experiences can be created by our prototype. Finally, a user evaluation indicates that participants enjoyed the experiences when using Gaiters and considered skin stretch as compelling haptic feedback on the legs.

This study investigates English language learner (ELL) perceptions of using a prototype virtual reality learning environment (VRLE) designed for teaching and learning writing structure. A mixed-methods approach was used, incorporating pre- and post-participation questionnaires, as well as semi-structured interviews. Participants consisted of 10 ELLs enrolled in first year English for Academic Purposes (EAP) courses at a university in Mainland, China. Results indicate that while the majority of students enjoyed using the VRLE, they maintained varying attitudes regarding the usefulness of the VRLE. Additionally, results from a correlation analysis suggest that learners' attitudes towards the material or content being learned (EAP writing) significantly correlates with learners' attitudes towards using the VRLE for learning writing structure.

Nowadays, buying a product online is no longer about the product itself but the experience it offers. The planned thesis work aims to understand how to improve the user's shopping experience in the context of online shopping for the fashion industry. To enhance the shopping experience, retailers need to sell new services by leveraging technologies such as Virtual Reality (VR). The first part of the research investigates which shopping experience, between one developed for a desktop computer - Desktop Virtual Reality (DVR) - and one developed in Virtual Reality (VR), generates better results in terms of hedonic and utilitarian values, cognitive load, and user experience. Also, the lack of touch in online shopping is a crucial issue. The second part of the research concerns the implementation of pseudo-haptics feedback within the online shopping experience with VR. Pseudo-haptics can induce haptic sensations without requiring actual touch through the influence of other sensory modalities, such as vision. To this end, we aim to explore the feasibility of recreating the sensation of people's actual touch with fashion products and fabrics through a "visualized touch" on an interface.

Nonverbal cues are paramount in real-world interactions. Among these cues, gaze has received much attention in the literature. In particular, previous work has shown a search asymmetry between directed and averted gaze towards the observer using photographic stimuli, with faster detection and longer fixation towards directed gaze by the observer. This is known as the stare-in-the-crowd effect. In this study, we investigate whether stare-in-the crowd effect is preserved in Virtual Reality (VR). To this end, we designed a within-subject experiment where 30 human users were immersed in a virtual environment in front of an audience of 11 virtual agents following 4 different gaze behaviours. We analysed the user's gaze behaviour when observing the audience, computing fixations and dwell time. We also collected the users' social anxiety score using a post-experiment questionnaire to control for some potential influencing factors. Results show that the stare-in-the-crowd effect is preserved in VR, as demonstrated by the significant differences between gaze behaviours, similarly to what was found in previous studies using photographic stimuli. Additionally, we found a negative correlation between dwell time towards directed gazes and users' social anxiety scores. Such results are encouraging for the development of expressive and reactive virtual humans, which can be animated to express natural interactive behaviour.

Developments in digital design workbenches that combine Augmented Reality (AR) systems and tangible user interfaces (TUIs) on a horizontal display surface provide a new kind of physical, and digital environment for collaborative design. The combination of tangible interaction with AR display techniques change the dynamics of the collaboration and have an impact on the designers' perception of 3D models. We are studying the effects of TUIs on designers' spatial cognition and design communication in order to identify how such tangible systems can be used to provide better support for collaborative design. Specifically, we compared tangible user interfaces (TUIs) with graphical user interfaces (GUIs) in a collaborative design task with a focus on characterising the impact these user interfaces have on spatial cognition.

We present a methodology for designing and implementing interactive intelligences. The constritctionist design methodology (CDM)-so called because it advocates modular building blocks and incorporation of prior work-addresses factors that we see as key to future advances in At, including support for interdisciplinary collaboration, coordination of teams, and large-scale systems integration. We test the methodology by building an interactive multifunctional system with a real-time perception-action loop. The system, whose construction relied entirely on the methodology, consists of an embodied virtual agent that can perceive both real and virtual objects in an augmented-reality room and interact with a user through coordinated gestures and speech. Wireless tracking technologies give the agent awareness of the environment and the user's speech and communicative acts. User and agent can communicate about things in the environment, their placement, and their function, as well as about more abstract topics, such as current news, through situated multimodal dialogue. The results demonstrate the CDM's strength in simplifying the modeling of complex, Multifunctional systems that require architectural experimentation and exploration of unclear subsystem boundaries, undefined variables, and tangled data flow and control hierarchies.

In this paper, we present results from an exploratory study to investigate users' behaviors and preferences for three different styles of search results presentation in a virtual reality (VR) head-mounted display (HMD). Prior work in 2D displays has suggested possible benefits of presenting information in ways that exploit users' spatial cognition abilities. We designed a VR system that displays search results in three different spatial arrangements: a list of 8 results, a 4x5 grid, and a 2x10 arc. These spatial display conditions were designed to differ in terms of the number of results displayed per page (8 vs 20) and the amount of head movement required to scan the results (list < grid < arc). Thirty-six participants completed 6 search trials in each display condition (18 total). For each trial, the participant was presented with a display of search results and asked to find a given target result or to indicate that the target was not present. We collected data about users' behaviors with and perceptions about the three display conditions using interaction data, questionnaires, and interviews. We explore the effects of display condition and target presence on behavioral measures (e.g., completion time, head movement, paging events, accuracy) and on users' perceptions (e.g., workload, ease of use, comfort, confidence, difficulty, and lostness). Our results suggest that there was no difference in accuracy among the display conditions, but that users completed tasks more quickly using the arc. However, users also expressed lower preferences for the arc, instead preferring the list and grid displays. Our findings extend prior research on visual search into to the area of 3-dimensional result displays for interactive information retrieval in VR HMD environments.

Modular floating structures (MFS) offer an attractive solution for the expansion of coastal cities in adaptation to flooding and sea level rise driven by climate change. Yet, large-scale floating structures for human habitation are unprecedented with no guidelines to inform their practical design. For such projects to succeed, it is essential to investigate how prospective residents will experience life on a floating city from the perspective of comfort and habitability. In response, this paper leverages immersive virtual reality (VR) to establish a framework replicating the motions of a floating structure within any given sea state. The test bed successfully reproduced the motions of an MFS excited by waves corresponding to 1, 50, and 100-year storm events with 96.1%-98.2% accuracy. This validated the feasibility of exploring MFS user experience, decision making, and communication in a completely virtual environment. Ultimately, we establish VR as an invaluable tool for the exploration of immersive visual stimuli to response perception in the context of a floating city.

Museums are increasingly turning to technology to improve their offerings. This presents an opportunity to surrounding neighborhoods to take advantage of the museum in order to connect with visitors and offer them a glimpse into their community. The work presented in this article contributes to advancing the state of the art in designing Mixed Reality (MR) entertainment experiences by presenting and discussing Yasmine's Adventures (YA), a mobile application aiming to extend the museum visitor's experience into the surrounding neighborhood. YA demonstrates the potential of MR in engaging visitors to explore neglected urban areas. This is achieved by incorporating the opinions of community members, and other contextual information, into a fictional storytelling journey, delivered through a MR entertainment experience distributed in real space. Consequently, users are provided with opportunity to connect with enriched portraits of these spaces. Results from a quantitative and qualitative evaluation showed that participants' perception of the neighborhood was positively affected by the experience, which fostered curiosity and willingness to explore the neighborhood both at the spatial and social levels. By taking the tour, participants increased their interest in interacting with locals and fostered greater knowledge of the area, which they were willing to share after experiencing it.

Visually induced motion sickness (VIMS) is a common symptom in the process of experiencing virtual reality (VR), which seriously reduces the comfort of users' VR experience and hinders the promotion and development of VR technology. Virtual space distortion is one of the potential factors affecting the comfort level of the VR experience. Incomplete distortion correction of near-eye display equipment will produce virtual space distortion, which may leads to VIMS. Aiming at the influence degree of virtual space distortion on VIMS, this paper simulated the experience process of VR technology, analyzed the distortion mechanism of near-eye display technology represented by VR technology, designed visual perception experiments of VIMS grade evaluation under three different distortion parameters, and carried out detailed subjective and objective data statistical analysis. The results show that virtual space distortion has a significant impact on VIMS symptoms,the greater the degree of distortion of the stereoscopic images viewed by the subjects, the more obvious the symptoms of VIMS. This study can provide a theoretical basis for improving the comfort level of the VR technology experience.

In the current paper psychophysical aspects of a vibrotactile feedback device were investigated and its potential of signal modulation was analyzed. We identified magnitude calibration factors for equal perceptions of the different stimulation locations of the device and determined the spatial acuity with which the user is able to correctly detect the stimulation's location. Furthermore we investigated different approaches of vibrotactile stimulation for communicating direction and distance information to the human arm (motion guidance) and also explored different approaches of signal modulation for the transmission of additional information content. The knowledge of these vibrotactile perception aspects is a fundamental requirement in order to design and evaluate different parameters for the design and application-oriented optimization of vibrotactile stimulation patterns.

Virtual experiment is an important field of human-computer interaction. With more and more virtual laboratories emerging, we found that problems regarding virtual experiments are rising. Such problems can be listed as follows: First, human-computer interaction has lower efficiency during the process of virtual experiment, which means the computer cannot understand the user & x2019;s intention thus leading to incorrect operation. Second, there are less detections for false behavior during experiments. Third, the virtual laboratory & x2019;s sense of operation and realism is not strong. In order to solve the above problems, the multimodal sensing navigation virtual and real fusion laboratory (MSNVRFL) was designed and implemented in this paper. We design a new set of experimental equipment with the function of cognition and study a multimodal fusion model and algorithm for chemical experiments, which are both finally verified and applied in MSNVRFL. By using multimodal fusion perception algorithm, the user & x2019;s true intentions can be understood and the human-computer interaction efficiency can be improved. By carrying out a virtual experiment with the mold of virtual and real fusion, problems like resources wasting and dangers happened during experiment can be avoided, user & x2019;s sense of operation and realism can be improved. In addition, teaching navigation and wrong operation behavior reminders are provided for users. The experimental result shows that our method can improve the efficiency of human-computer interaction, reduce the user & x2019;s cognitive load, strengthen the user & x2019;s sense of reality and operation and stimulate students & x2019; interest in learning.

In recent years, virtual reality has emerged as an innovative tool for health-related education and training. Among the many benefits of virtual reality is the opportunity for novice users to engage unsupervised in a safe environment when the real environment might be dangerous. Virtual environments are only useful for health-related research, however, if behavior in the virtual world validly matches behavior in the real world. This study was designed to test the validity of an immersive, interactive virtual pedestrian environment. A sample of 102 children and 74 adults was recruited to complete simulated road-crossings in both the virtual environment and the identical real environment. In both the child and adult samples, construct validity was demonstrated via significant correlations between behavior in the virtual and real worlds. Results also indicate construct validity through developmental differences in behavior; convergent validity by showing correlations between parent-reported child temperament and behavior in the virtual world; internal reliability of various measures of pedestrian safety in the virtual world; and face validity, as measured by users' self-reported perception of realism in the virtual world. We discuss issues of generalizability to other virtual environments, and the implications for application of virtual reality to understanding and preventing pediatric pedestrian injuries. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

This work studies the usability of an audio and haptic-based virtual environment for learners with visual disabilities, intended for orientation and mobility purposes. To this end Audiopolis, a videogame for navigating a virtual city through interaction with audio and haptic interfaces, was designed and evaluated. Iconic and end-user usability evaluations of the videogame were administered. The results show that Audiopolis is highly usable and understandable for end users. An ongoing cognitive evaluation of navigation skills as a result of using Audiopolis is being implemented.

Background: The capacity of health care professionals to perform clinical procedures safely and competently is crucial as it will directly impact patients' outcomes. Given the ability of head-mounted virtual reality to simulate the authentic clinical environment, this platform should be suitable for nurses to refine their clinical skills for knowledge and skills acquisition. However, research on head-mounted virtual reality in learning clinical procedures is limited.Objective: The objectives of this study were (1) to describe the design of a head-mounted virtual reality system and evaluate it for education on clinical procedures for nursing students and (2) to explore the experience of nursing students using head-mounted virtual reality for learning clinical procedures and the usability of the system.Methods: This usability study used a mixed method approach. The stages included developing 3D models of the necessary instruments and materials used in intravenous therapy and subcutaneous injection procedures performed by nurses, followed by developing the procedures using the Unreal Engine (Epic Games). Questionnaires on the perception of continuance intention and the System Usability Scale were used along with open-ended questions.Results: Twenty-nine nursing students took part in this questionnaire study after experiencing the immersive virtual reality (IVR) intervention. Participants reported largely favorable game perception and learning experience. Mean perception scores ranged from 3.21 to 4.38 of a maximum score of 5, while the mean system usability score was 53.53 of 100. The majority found that the IVR experience was engaging, and they were immersed in the game. The challenges encountered included unfamiliarity with the new learning format; technological constraints, such as using hand controllers; and physical discomfort.Conclusions: The conception of IVR for learning clinical procedures through deliberate practice to enhance nurses' knowledge and skills is promising. However, refinement of the prototypes is required to improve user experience and learning. Future research can explore other ways to use IVR for better education and health care purposes. (JMIR Serious Games 2023;11:e46398) doi: 10.2196/46398

The creation and usage of serious games on virtual reality (VR) and/or interactive platforms for the teaching of architecture, construction, urban planning, and other derived areas, such as security and risk prevention, require design processes, studies, and research that lead to further consolidation expansion. In that sense, this paper presents two main aims developed: the improvement of a virtual navigation system through the results of previous user studies and mixed research (quantitative and qualitative) improved based on the user perception for educational and professional uses. The VR system used is based on Unreal Engine programming of the HTC Vive sensor. This study is related to the GAME4City 3.0 and a broader project focused on gamified visualization and its educational uses in architectural and urban projects. The results reflect great interest, good usability, and high motivation for further usage for all types of users. However, an apparent resistance to deepen its use continues to be perceived in academia. Based on the research results, weak points of educational gamified systems have been identified, and the main differences and needs in user profiles' function. With these data, progress regarding implementing this kind of system at the teaching and professional levels must be pursued. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) objects react dynamically to users' touch interactions in real-time. However, experiencing changes in weight through the haptic sense remains challenging with consumer VR controllers due to their limited vibrotactile feedback. While prior works successfully applied pseudo-haptics to perceive absolute weight by manipulating the control-display (C/D) ratio, we continuously adjusted the C/D ratio to mimic weight changes. Vibrotactile feedback additionally emphasises the modulation in the virtual object's physicality. In a study (N=18), we compared our multimodal technique with pseudo-haptics alone and a baseline condition to assess participants' experiences of weight changes. Our findings demonstrate that participants perceived varying degrees of weight change when the C/D ratio was adjusted, validating its effectiveness for simulating dynamic weight in VR. However, the additional vibrotactile feedback did not improve weight change perception. This work extends the understanding of designing haptic experiences for lightweight VR systems by leveraging perceptual mechanisms.

This work introduces RadVR, a virtual reality tool for daylighting analysis that simultaneously combines qualitative assessments through immersive real-time renderings with quantitative physically correct daylighting simulations in a 6DOF virtual environment. By taking a 3D building model with material properties as input, RadVR allows users to (1) perform physically-based daylighting simulations via Radiance, (2) study sunlight in different hours-of-the-year, (3) interact with a 9-point-in-time matrix for the most representative times of the year, and (4) visualize, compare, and analyze daylighting simulation results. With an end-to-end workflow, RadVR integrates with 3D modeling software that is commonly used by building designers. Additionally, by conducting user experiments we compare the proposed system with DIVA for Rhino, a Radiance-based tool that uses conventional 2D-displays. The results show that RadVR can provide promising assistance in spatial understanding tasks, navigation, and sun position analysis in virtual reality.

Virtual Pets serve as companionships and meaningful in-game narratives in the metaverse. Players have unique personalities and personality preferences for their pets. However, the design of virtual pets often relies on designers' individual experiences without considering the virtual pets' personalities. We designed the virtual pets' visual appearances by following the design guidelines from the Five Factor Model (FFM) in voxel format. We conducted a study to investigate people's perceptions of virtual pets' personalities and appearances through two user studies. Our findings suggest that voxel-style virtual pets better represented agreeableness than realistic pet pictures. Additionally, users prefer virtual pets (voxel-style pets generated with machine-learning techniques) that share similar personalities. The study's results provide valuable insights for game designers and researchers for future pet game design and understanding of how people perceive virtual pets based on their appearance and behavior.

Virtual reality technology can provide more display techniques to realize the interactive design of multiexhibition area of red humanities and natural resources. First of all, through the three-dimensional interactive display of cultural relics and scene reproduction of historical events, visitors can enjoy the unrestrained and immersive appreciation, make up for people's lack of understanding of history, and let tourists personally feel the difficulties and hardships in the development of Chinese revolutionary history. Second, the digital method also provides for the pavilion and the scenic spot design personnel more creative method; dynamic scene reappearance interaction design based on virtual reality technology to promote education, protection of cultural relic collection and utilization, academic research, and the industrial development and multidimensional public welfare publicity results is blended in among them, through the panoramic, immersive, and interactive display technique, such as multilevel multiway spread red brigade culture. Virtual reality constantly imitates the real-life environment, and the application of perception sensing equipment has perception. This new technology requires us to continue to explore and research it. Virtual reality technology is a very cutting-edge subject and research field, which is very challenging. The communication form of culture has also been constantly evolving. Virtual reality technology (VR) has changed the way of traditional culture appreciation through the transmission of visual information, bringing people a new aesthetic enjoyment. Mainstream media is used to mobilize the red cultural heritage protection and scholars at home and abroad, to explore the application of virtual reality in the red culture tourist attraction planning, and to explore virtual reality applications in red open spot virtual roaming: exploration of virtual reality in the application of historical and cultural sites to red tourism management and exploration of virtual reality in the brand historical and cultural sites in the application of the travel marketing, to build an intelligent mobile communication network communication platform and broaden the new path of inheritance and protection. On the basis of studying the communication effect of traditional culture, this paper studies the possible communication effect of symphony orchestra under the new technology format under the framework of communication studies. It also analyzes and explores various factors such as the practical value, difficulty, civilized prestige, adaptability, and resistance to adversity of the culture in cultural communication and compares the methods of cultural communication. By developing a virtual instrument placed in the sphere of virtual reality space, the traditional symphony orchestra can be transformed into an interactive culture communication in virtual reality space. In this communication design, users can define their own instruments to play interactive culture communication, change the position of the instrument on the sphere interactively, and even change the sound effect of the symphony interactively by rotating or adjusting the size of the sphere, so as to achieve the best communication effect of the symphony.

Augmented Reality (AR) is aimed at integrating virtual information into real world to enhance the perception ability of reality. The paper mainly presents an AR system that can complete some interactions between the user and the smartphone based on touch screen and body motion. There are three contents in this system. The first part is the building of AR scenes in Unity3D on the basis of real-time mapping access to the WebCamTexture Class. The second part is the interaction based on the touch screen with the method of Raycast. The third part is the interaction based on the body motion with the help of Gyro Sensor in the smartphone. Experimental results show that there is a good effect in the touch-screen interaction to realize some actions such as translation, rotation, scaling, or any combination of these. And it is also effective in the body-motion interaction to control the virtual objects acting according to the user's body motion.

Despite many recent developments in virtual reality, an effective locomotion interface which allows for normal walking through large virtual environments was until recently still lacking. Here, we describe the new CyberWalk omnidirectional treadmill system, which makes it possible for users to walk endlessly in any direction, while never leaving the confines of the limited walking surface. The treadmill system improves on previous designs, both in its mechanical features and in the control system employed to keep users close to the center of the treadmill. As a result, users are able to start walking, vary their walking speed and direction, and stop walking as they would on a normal, stationary surface. The treadmill system was validated in two experiments, in which both the walking behavior and the performance in a basic spatial updating task were compared to that during normal overground walking. The results suggest that walking on the CyberWalk treadmill is very close to normal walking, especially after some initial familiarization. Moreover, we did not find a detrimental effect of treadmill walking in the spatial updating task. The CyberWalk system constitutes a significant step forward to bringing the real world into the laboratory or workplace.

Gesture-based touchless devices are becoming a widespread alternative to traditional gaming devices such as joysticks or gamepads. However, the impact of such devices on the user experience has to be evaluated, especially if we consider that most users are more familiar with classical handheld gaming controllers. In virtual reality applications, they influence not only the traditional usability, but also the user perception related to some peculiarities of immersive environments. In this paper, we evaluate both these aspects by comparing the user experience with the Myo armband touchless interface and the Vive controller distributed with the HTC Vive headset. We focused on a virtual navigator we developed for HTC Vive to allow users exploring the organs of the human body and navigating inside them. We recruited 78 subjects to test the virtual environment and asked them to fill in a questionnaire: we combined two generic purpose questionnaires focusing on the system usability (UMUX and SUS) and a presence questionnaire, which was specifically designed for virtual environments. We conducted a statistical analysis to study the effects of a touchless interaction on the user experience. The results revealed a better usability of the Myo armband, even though the effort to learn how to use the two devices is similar. In particular, difficulties in using Myo have a significant impact on immersion and adaptation in the virtual environment.

As one of the important senses of Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality, tactile feedback can provide users with touch sensation such as shape, quality and texture of contacting objects, thus enhancing the immersion and interaction of virtual environments. Here we present an electromagnetic vibration device, which can transmit tactile information by displaying programmable biological or artificial wave signals. This device uses the H-bridge circuit to drive the coil with alternating current to excite a varying spatial magnetic field, thereby generating attractive and repulsive forces alternately on the magnetic stick to form vibration feedback. We display biological vibration signals like heartbeat and sound waves with this device, and inertial sensors are used to prove the accuracy of vibration generation by recording the stick's movement. In addition, several vibration modes are designed according to the human tactile perception characteristics, and recognition experiments shows that they can be distinguished correctly for delivering different messages.

Virtual agents (VAs) can be used in a variety of scenarios, e.g. as assistants or in exergame tutorials. One of the advantages of VAs is that they can be customized to the user's needs. Still, little research is done on preferences for the appearance of agents, especially when user groups are of mixed age. This work explores the effect of the species (abstract, animal, and human) of the agent on several dependent variables: user experience, anthropomorphism, animacy, likeability, and perceived intelligence. Therefore, an experimental study with a within-subject design was conducted. Furthermore, the effect of the user's personality on the perception was investigated. Main findingswere that people that had a high score in the openness to new experiences trait rated embodied agents significantly higher in likeability and animacy than people with a low score. This work highlights the importance of tailoring the appearance of agents to the users.

Virtual product presentations that rely on static images and text are often insufficient to communicate all the information that is necessary to accurately evaluate a product. Technologies such as Virtual Reality (VR) or Augmented Reality (AR) have enabled more sophisticated representation methods, but certain product characteristics are difficult to assess and may result in perceptual differences when a product is evaluated in different visual media. In this article, we report two case studies in which a group of participants evaluated three designs of two product typologies (i.e., a desktop telephone and a coffee maker) as presented in three different visual media (i.e., photorealistic renderings, AR, and VR for the first case study; and photographs, a non-immersive virtual environment, and AR for the second case study) using eight semantic scales. An inferential statistical method using Aligned Rank Transform (ART) proceedings was applied to determine perceptual differences between groups. Our results show that in both cases product attributes in Jordan's physio-pleasure category are the most affected by the presentation media. The socio-pleasure category was also affected for the case of the coffee makers. The level of immersion afforded by the medium significantly affects product evaluation.

Augmented reality (AR) technologies, such as Microsoft's HoloLens head-mounted display and AR-enabled car windshields, are rapidly emerging. AR applications provide users with immersive virtual experiences by capturing input from a user's surroundings and overlaying virtual output on the user's perception of the real world. These applications enable users to interact with and perceive virtual content in fundamentally new ways. However, the immersive nature of AR applications raises serious security and privacy concerns. Prior work has focused primarily on input privacy risks stemming from applications with unrestricted access to sensor data. However, the risks associated with malicious or buggy AR output remain largely unexplored. For example, an AR windshield application could intentionally or accidentally obscure oncoming vehicles or safety-critical output of other AR applications. In this work, we address the fundamental challenge of securing AR output in the face of malicious or buggy applications. We design, prototype, and evaluate Arya, an AR platform that controls application output according to policies specified in a constrained yet expressive policy framework. In doing so, we identify and overcome numerous challenges in securing AR output.

Incorporating the sense of touch through haptics in virtual spaces enables people to communicate emotions and engage in more naturalistic and meaningful social interactions. Advances in haptics and virtual reality technologies and applications have been essential to support researchers in the exploration of mediated social touch in virtual environments. The aim of this work is to review the last decade of research on haptics and virtual reality technologies investigating social touch behavior between human avatars as well as between humans and non-human virtual agents. Our systematic review organizes the variety of the conducted research in three dimensions: the context against which mediated social touch is studied, the types of haptics and virtual reality technology used, and empirical studies including data collected and outcome measures. We discuss the results of the analysis of the three dimensions and present implications for future research. We pinpoint the importance of considering in-the-wild studies and emerging issues on social virtual reality; understanding human touch perception for people with different physical and cognitive abilities, and; creating development tools to broaden the exploration of advanced technological setups.

Smartphone augmented reality (AR) lets users interact with physical and virtual spaces simultaneously. With 3D hand tracking, smartphones become apparatus to grab and move virtual objects directly. Based on design considerations for interaction, mobility, and object appearance and physics, we implemented a prototype for portable 3D hand tracking using a smartphone, a Leap Motion controller, and a computation unit. Following an experience prototyping procedure, 12 researchers used the prototype to help explore usability issues and define the design space. We identified issues in perception (moving to the object, reaching for the object), manipulation (successfully grabbing and orienting the object), and behavioral understanding (knowing how to use the smartphone as a viewport). To overcome these issues, we designed object-based feedback and accommodation mechanisms and studied their perceptual and behavioral effects via two tasks: picking up distant objects, and assembling a virtual house from blocks. Our mechanisms enabled significantly faster and more successful user interaction than the initial prototype in picking up and manipulating stationary and moving objects, with a lower cognitive load and greater user preference. The resulting system-Portal-ble-improves user intuition and aids free-hand interactions in mobile situations.

Virtual Reality (VR) allows us to replace our visible body with a virtual self-representation (avatar) and to explore its effects on our body perception. While the feeling of owning and controlling a virtual body is widely researched, how VR affects the awareness of internal body signals (body awareness) remains open. Forty participants performed moving meditation tasks in reality and VR, either facing their mirror image or not. Both the virtual environment and avatars photorealistically matched their real counterparts. We found a negative effect of VR on body awareness, mediated by feeling embodied in and changed by the avatar. Further, we revealed a negative effect of a mirror on body awareness. Our results indicate that assessing body awareness should be essential in evaluating VR designs and avatar embodiment aiming at mental health, as even a scenario as close to reality as possible can distract users from their internal body signals.

The application of virtual reality to the study of conversation and social interaction is a relatively new field of study. While the affordances of VR in the domain compared to traditional methods are promising, the current state of the field is plagued by a lack of methodological standards and shared understanding of how design features of the immersive experience impact participants. In order to address this, this paper develops a relationship map between design features and experiential outcomes, along with expectations for how those features interact with each other. Based on the results of a narrative review drawing from diverse fields, this relationship map focuses on dyadic conversations with agents. The experiential outcomes chosen include presence & engagement, psychological discomfort, and simulator sickness. The relevant design features contained in the framework include scenario agency, visual fidelity, agent automation, environmental context, and audio features. We conclude by discussing the findings of the review and framework, such as the multimodal nature of social VR being highlighted, and the importance of environmental context, and lastly provide recommendations for future research in social VR.

At present, with the gradual development of science and technology, people's life has also produced a lot of changes, the traditional communication technology has been gradually changed by the new computer technology, people's life has become more intelligent. However, many current artificial intelligence technologies rely on the promotion of network data. In the mobile terminal, especially in the poor state of some data network environment, many users' intelligence needs cannot be met. From the perspective of user interaction experience, this paper analyzes and investigates the interactive standby link in detail and systematically based on the perspective of context awareness and carries out a battle summary with the scientific, systematic, reasonable, and executable design methods suitable for an interactive standby state and puts forward the recommended items of matrix decomposition. The static information is embedded in the model. The status of information is imported as a dimension different from the previous matrix factorization model, and the accumulation of interaction between user's status conditions and project factors is considered, as well as the sensitivity difference between user and information project status. In order to obtain the global situation of user balance, the project prediction deviation caused by the vector and sensitivity to various conditions is needed. Finally, the training model gets the final prediction score value and puts forward the mobile system user interaction experience art design strategy based on context awareness, which provides a certain idea to meet the needs of mobile system users.

Both industry and academic interest in mixed reality has skyrocketed in recent years. New headset devices for both virtual and augmented reality are increasingly available and affordable, and new APIs, tools, and frameworks enable developers and researchers to more easily create mixed reality applications. While many tools aim to make it easier to create and interact with content rendered to the headset, these new devices are interesting not just from an output, but also from an input perspective-they contain powerful multimodal sensors that provide unique opportunities to drive forward research on egocentric perception and interaction. In this paper, we introduce Platform for Situated Intelligence-an existing open-source framework-to the mixed reality community. The framework was designed to help developers and researchers create and study real-time, interactive AI systems that process multimodal streaming data. Recent extensions to the framework include new capabilities and components designed specifically to support mixed reality sensory streams and scenarios.

This article considers the visual appearance of a virtual agent designed to take over the driving task in a highly automated car, to answer the question of which visual appearance is appropriate for a virtual agent in a driving role. The authors first selected five models of visual appearance thanks to a picture sorting procedure (N = 19). Then, they conducted a survey-based study (N = 146) using scales of trust, anthropomorphism, and likability to assess the appropriateness of those five models from an early-prototyping perspective. They found that human and mechanical-human models were more trusted than other selected models in the context of highly automated cars. Instead, animal and mechanical-animal ones appeared to be less suited to the role of a driving assistant. Learnings from the methodology are discussed, and suggestions for further research are proposed.

Intelligent adaptive systems generally use inferential or computational methods to identify and adapt to the user's internal state of interest. Toward an adaptive human-in-the-loop simulation, his article defines, implements, and validates an analytic scheme to estimate real-time, task-specific, and comprehensive human performance encompassing perception and action. The proposed scheme builds on the previous work of mixed reality (MR) simulation app designed to perform a virtual object-following task for screening and diagnosis of neurocognitive impairment. The proposed human performance model adopts the Fitts' paradigm of speed-accuracy tradeoff in the context of continuous, rapid aimed movements. For validation, the performance quantification of eleven healthy subjects over two repeated sessions was statistically analyzed. The results potentially confirm a qualification of the metric in terms of stability (by not showing statistically significant variance over repetition), but for an accurate estimate of individual performance, the scheme needs to be adjusted with its segmentation threshold.

This work explores the integration of generative pretrained transformer (GPT), an AI language model developed by OpenAI, as an assistant in low-cost virtual escape games. The study focuses on the synergy between virtual reality (VR) and GPT, aiming to evaluate its performance in helping solve logical challenges within a specific context in the virtual environment while acting as a personalized assistant through voice interaction. The findings from user evaluations revealed both positive perceptions and limitations of GPT in addressing highly complex challenges, indicating its potential as a valuable tool for providing assistance and guidance in problem-solving situations. The study also identified areas for future improvement, including adjusting the difficulty of puzzles and enhancing GPT's contextual understanding. Overall, the research sheds light on the opportunities and challenges of integrating AI language models such as GPT in virtual gaming environments, offering insights for further advancements in this field.

Daylighting performance is a major factor in shaping the quality of any architectural space. Therefore, visualization and assessment of daylighting are some of the important applications of Virtual Reality (VR) in architecture. However, many of the related current methodologies show limitations in terms of realism, user-engagement, and locomotion. This research introduces and validates the term "Immersive Gamified Environment" (IGE) as a human-oriented, more engaging approach to evaluate and optimize the subjective qualities of daylighting in early stages of the design process. The initial project of this research creates a user-oriented VR game for the assessment of daylighting performance in "Kimbell Art Museum" by Louis Kahn. The methodology is based on fulfilling in-game objectives and a follow-up questionnaire. The outcomes of this study show potentials of the proposed system in terms of realism, light perception, and interaction, despite some limitations regarding scale perception and motion sickness.

A mirror is used in various aspects of daily life; thus, most people can use a mirror-metaphor augmented reality (AR) system naturally, without wearing a head-mounted display or AR glasses. An augmented mirror, one of the mirror metaphor AR display, is considered a more appropriate system than video-based virtual mirror display for personalized and immersive interaction in AR because it can show a combined scene in which a rendered virtual world is superimposed on the reflected real world based the viewpoint of a user. In this paper, we propose a focused augmented mirror that implements both viewpoint and depth-of-field matchings. In particular, we design a focused augmented mirror by concentrating on how the depth-of-field influences human visual perception in the augmented mirror system. To compare the differences between the theoretical and practical results, we perform two types of experiments; calculating the focus measure of the combined image photographed at user's viewpoint and evaluating user experience with randomly selected non-expert people. In addition, we suggest an efficient user workspace that is limited by the tracker's geometric configuration and the target object's depth of field. Finally, we describe the physical limitation of our system and propose its solution as a future work.

Virtual reality (VR) supports audiences to engage with cultural heritage proactively. We designed an easy-to-access and guided VR reconstruction of the murals in Mogao Grottoes, Pilgrimage To Pureland, to offer the general public an accessible and engaging way to experience the Dunhuang murals. We explored an immersive VR reconstruction approach that can efficiently convert complex 2D mural art into 3D digital VR content while maintaining its originality. Specifically, we reconstructed the Mt. Wutai pilgrimage mural in Cave 61 into a plot-based interactive VR environment that offers users a more accessible and immersive narrative to visit and appreciate Dunhuang murals' complex religious, historical, and artistic value. We conducted a user study with twenty participants to further investigate how this reconstruction approach and the interactive narratives would affect users' immersive experiences and knowledge acquisition, compared with other forms of virtual access as the control group. Findings from our user study revealed that participants from the VR experimental group reported a significantly higher level of immersion and understanding of the knowledge. To conclude, our 2D-to-VR reconstruction methods provided a VR reconstruction approach and insights for creating engaging user experiences and improving users understanding of cultural and historical concepts while preserving the originality of the cultural heritage.

Most stroke patients suffer from a combination of motor and sensory dysfunction and central facial paralysis. Specific rehabilitation training is required to restore those functions. Current research focuses on developing stimulating and straightforward rehabilitation training processes so that patients adhere to the training at home after hospital release. This study proposes enhancing patients' enthusiasm to participate in facial muscle exercises and improving their postural perception and balance by controlling virtual objects to complete assigned tasks in virtual reality games using different facial expressions with the assistance of haptic feedback. The different rehabilitation exercises for motor, sensory, and facial dysfunctions were combined in one virtual reality game for the first time. The proposed haptic feedback device was modeled, simulated, and characterized. A user study was conducted to validate the proposed system. The experiment result shows that all the designed functions of the comprehensive stroke rehabilitation virtual reality game can be achieved. The added haptic feedback enhances the performance of the aircraft control with facial expressions by lowering the trajectory deviation by 22.57%. This implies that the proposed game may improve users' performance, thus attracting them to conduct more training.

Hand tracking and haptics are gaining more importance as key technologies of virtual reality (VR) systems. For designing such systems, it is fundamental to understand how the appearance of the virtual hands influences user experience and how the human brain integrates vision and haptics. However, it is currently unknown whether multi-sensory integration of visual and haptic feedback can be influenced by the appearance of virtual hands in VR. We performed a user study in VR to gain insight into the effect of hand appearance on how the brain combines visual and haptic signals using a cue-conflict paradigm. In this paper, we show that the detection of surface irregularities (bumps and holes) sensed by eyes and hands is affected by the rendering of avatar hands. However, sensitivity changes do not correlate with the degree of perceived limb ownership. Qualitative feedback provides insights into potentially distracting cues in visual-haptic integration.

Multimodal interactions provide users with more natural ways to manipulate virtual 3D objects than using traditional input methods. An emerging approach is gaze modulated pointing, which enables users to perform object selection and manipulation in a virtual space conveniently through the use of a combination of gaze and other interaction techniques (e.g., mid-air gestures). As gaze modulated pointing uses different sensors to track and detect user behaviours, its performance relies on the user's perception on the exact spatial mapping between the virtual space and the physical space. An underexplored issue is, when the spatial mapping differs with the user's perception, manipulation errors (e.g., out of boundary errors, proximity errors) may occur. Therefore, in gaze modulated pointing, as gaze can introduce misalignment of the spatial mapping, it may lead to user's misperception of the virtual environment and consequently manipulation errors. This paper provides a clear definition of the problem through a thorough investigation on its causes and specifies the conditions when it occurs, which is further validated in the experiment. It also proposes three methods (Scaling, Magnet and Dual-gaze) to address the problem and examines them using a comparative study which involves 20 participants with 1040 runs. The results show that all three methods improved the manipulation performance with regard to the defined problem where Magnet and Dual-gaze delivered better performance than Scaling. This finding could be used to inform a more robust multimodal interface design supported by both eye tracking and mid-air gesture control without losing efficiency and stability.

Hand tracking and haptics are gaining more importance as key technologies of virtual reality (VR) systems. For designing such systems, it is fundamental to understand how the appearance of the virtual hands influences user experience and how the human brain integrates vision and haptics. However, it is currently unknown whether multi-sensory integration of visual and haptic feedback can be influenced by the appearance of virtual hands in VR. We performed a user study in VR to gain insight into the effect of hand appearance on how the brain combines visual and haptic signals using a cue-conflict paradigm. In this paper, we show that the detection of surface irregularities (bumps and holes) sensed by eyes and hands is affected by the rendering of avatar hands. However, sensitivity changes do not correlate with the degree of perceived limb ownership. Qualitative feedback provides insights into potentially distracting cues in visual-haptic integration.

Depending on the specific design phase and relevant goals, engineers have various options to visualize machine tool development. This study examined two types of visualization (e.g. concerning complexity, colors, animations, vividness) using VR technology. Over 25 experts were asked to identify and assess hazards in two 3D-models that differed in complexity. Besides technical aspects, we tested whether psychological aspects such as sense of "being there" and the quality of the risk assessment were affected by the type of the 3D-representation. Furthermore the relations between the user's traits (e.g. conscientiousness, risk perception, etc.) and the properties of the 3D-models were explored. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PurposeThis study aims to examine the underlying emotional process that explains how context-specific stimuli involved in virtual reality (VR) destinations translate into presence perceptions and behavioral intentions.Design/methodology/approachIn total, 403 potential tourists participated in a self-administered online survey after they watched a randomly assigned VR tour. The Lavaan package in R software was used to conduct structural equation analysis and examine the proposed theoretical framework.FindingsThe results reveal that media content consisting of informativeness, aesthetics and novelty was positively related to users' sense of presence in a VR tour. The effect of media content on presence was partially mediated by emotional arousal.Practical implicationsManagers and VR designers can create an emotive virtual tour that contributes to the user's sense of presence to promote attraction to the target destination. The VR content needs to be informative, aesthetic and novel, which can excite users during the VR tour, portray virtual destinations clearly and eventually influence potential tourists' visit intentions.Originality/valueResearch on the emotional mechanism to generate presence is still in its infancy. This study integrates presence theory into a conceptual framework to explore how media content influences presence and decision-making through the emotional mechanism.

This paper presents FacePush, a Head-Mounted Display (HMD) integrated with a pulley system to generate normal forces on a user's face in virtual reality (VR). The mechanism of FacePush is obtained by shifting torques provided by two motors that press upon a user's face via utilization of a pulley system. FacePush can generate normal forces of varying strengths and apply those to the surface of the face. To inform our design of FacePush for noticeable and discernible normal forces in VR applications, we conducted two studies to identify the absolute detection threshold and the discrimination threshold for users' perception. After further consideration in regard to user comfort, we determined that two levels of force, 2.7 kPa and 3.375 kPa, are ideal for the development of the FacePush experience via implementation with three applications which demonstrate use of discrete and continuous normal force for the actions of boxing, diving, and 360 guidance in virtual reality. In addition, with regards to a virtual boxing application, we conducted a user study evaluating the user experience in terms of enjoyment and realism and collected the user's feedback.

The presence of a third dimension makes accurate drawing in virtual reality (VR) more challenging than 2D drawing. These challenges include higher demands on spatial cognition and motor skills, as well as the potential for mistakes caused by depth perception errors. We present Multiplanes, a VR drawing system that supports both the flexibility of freehand drawing and the ability to draw accurate shapes in 3D by affording both planar and beautified drawing. The system was designed to address the above-mentioned challenges. Multiplanes generates snapping planes and beautification trigger points based on previous and current strokes and the current controller pose. Based on geometrical relationships to previous strokes, beautification trigger points serve to guide the user to reach specific positions in space. The system also beautifies user's strokes based on the most probable intended shape while the user is drawing them. With Multiplanes, in contrast to other systems, users do not need to manually activate such guides, allowing them to focus on the creative process.

Purpose - This paper aims to examine three distinct aspects of authenticity that pre-service teachers (PSTs) experience when they engage with virtual classroom environments to develop their content-intensive instructional practice - task authenticity, student avatar authenticity and performance authenticity - and their perceptions about the usefulness of the simulated teaching experience to support their learning. Design/methodology/approach - This paper explored these conceptions of authenticity and usefulness within a larger research study whose goal was to develop virtual environment tools to help elementary PSTs learn how to engage in one ambitious teaching practice: facilitating discussions that engage students in argumentation. To examine these aspects of authenticity and usefulness, this paper used a general qualitative deductive analysis approach to examine data from 104 interviews with 26 case study teachers and examined patterns in PSTs' perceptions within and across interviews and authenticity aspects. Findings - While these PSTs strongly value the utility of these tools to support their learning, findings point to variation in their perceptions of authenticity. Findings showed that most PSTs perceived the tasks as an authentic representation of the work of teaching. However, their perceptions of task authenticity did not always align with their perceptions of avatar or performance authenticity. Originality/value - This paper argues that these three aspects of authenticity relate to, but expand upon, the broader notions of presence and plausibility noted in the literature on virtual environments and should be taken up more directly in future studies of users' perceptions of virtual environments both within and outside of educational contexts. Z8 0

Time experience is an essential part of one's perception of any environment, real or virtual. In this article, from a virtual environment design perspective, we explore how rhythmic stimuli can influence an unrelated cognitive task regarding time experience and performance in virtual reality. This study explicitly includes physiological data to investigate how, overall, experience correlates with psychophysiological observations. The task involves sorting 3D objects by shape, with varying rhythmic stimuli in terms of their tempo and sensory channel (auditory and/or visual) indifferent trials, to collect subjective measures of time estimation and judgment. The results indicate different effects on time experience and performance depending on the context, such as user fatigue and trial repetition. Depending on the context, a positive impact of audio stimuli or a negative impact of visual stimuli on task performance can be observed, as well as time being underestimated concerning tempo in relation to task familiarity. However, some effects are consistent regardless of context, such as time being judged to pass faster with additional stimuli or consistent correlations between participants' performance and time experience, suggesting flow-related aspects. We also observe correlations between time experience with eye-tracking data and body temperature, yet some of these correlations maybe due to a confounding effect of fatigue. If confirmed as separate from fatigue, these physiological data could be used as reference point for evaluating a user's time experience. This might be of great interest for designing virtual environments, as purposeful stimuli can strongly influence task performance and time experience, both essential components of virtual environment user experience.

In many manufacturing sites, workers depend profoundly on user manuals that include texts and images in paper or digital format to learn and perform their daily assembly tasks. Studies have shown that these user manuals tend to increase misinterpretation and oversight, thus affecting user performance. To address this challenge, we propose an Augmented Reality (AR) user manual using a head-worn display that allows intuitive and direct perception of contextual information overlaid atop the real-world task environment. Our work explores not only semantics (i.e., the content) but also syntax (i.e., the presentation method) of information delivered to the user. As a proof of concept, we applied the proposed concept to prototype an AR instruction manual for a Bluetooth speaker assembly task. The prototype was evaluated by three subject matter experts who performed a heuristic walkthrough based on the principles of human information processing. Our initial usability evaluation demonstrated the potential of AR user manual. The findings also underscored the importance of considering both semantics and syntax of information when designing AR user interfaces.

Nowadays, the presentation of products through virtual reality and other online media coexists with traditional means. However, while some products may be perceived correctly in digital media, others may need physical contact. In this scenario, this work analyses how presenting a product highlighted for its haptic properties and the presence or absence of physical contact during the presentation can influence the perception of its attributes and stimulate purchase intention. To this end, an experiment was designed in which each participant viewed and interacted with a chair presented in five different means that elicited a greater or lesser sense of presence. Participants evaluated the product's attributes on a semantic scale with bipolar pairs. No relation was found between the presentation means and users' purchase intention. However, results showed significant differences in the evaluation of some physical characteristics depending on the presentation means, and the product was generally more liked when presented in means in which it could be touched. We conclude that choosing means that allow a product to be touched and elicit a greater sense of presence may impact more positively on evaluations of haptic features when presenting a product with high haptic importance.

Focused ultrasound devices can provide haptic sensations in a non-contact manner without constraint or weight. However, the presentation power is relatively low compared to contact-type devices. This study proposes a haptic presentation actuator that enhances the perception of virtual protrusions generated by a focused ultrasound device. Skin deformation is important for perceiving protrusion shapes. An actuator was designed by the research team consisting of a thin film and a contact body that induces skin deformation. Finite element simulation analysis and psychophysical experiments were conducted to determine the shape factor of the actuator. Questionnaires were conducted with experimental participants to determine the device's impact on the experience in a virtual reality. As a result, the proposed device enabled the presentation of pressure perception with static pressure as small as 3 mN without vibrotactile sensation, which was previously difficult. Furthermore, it was found that the protrusion shape can be presented, improving the reality of protrusion shapes in a virtual reality setting.

This paper describes a platform for the user-centred design and evaluation of adaptive, context-aware services in the wireless, mobile and pervasive computing markets. It focuses on evaluating the user interactions with context-aware adaptive systems while synchronising the control of the environmental context that drives adaptivity and the user's perception of that environment. The platform uses a 3D virtual reality simulation to present the environment to the user and to drive the generation of simulated environmental context. The platform thereby delivers repeatable, instrumented, context-dependent evaluations of adaptive services over a range of contexts. It aims to reduce development costs and facilitate the development of more effective, user-empowering services.

We present the design of an immersion-type 3D headset suitable for virtual reality applications based upon digital micro-mirror devices (DMD). Current methods for presenting information for virtual reality are focused on either polarization-based modulators such as liquid crystal on silicon (LCoS) devices, or miniature LCD or LED displays often using lenses to place the image at infinity. LCoS modulators are an area of active research and development, and reduce the amount of viewing light by 50% due to the use of polarization. Viewable LCD or LED screens may suffer low resolution, cause eye fatigue, and exhibit a "screen door" or pixelation effect due to the low pixel fill factor. Our approach leverages a mature technology based on silicon micro mirrors delivering 720p resolution displays in a small form-factor with high fill factor. Supporting chip sets allow rapid integration of these devices into wearable displays with high-definition resolution and low power consumption, and many of the design methods developed for DMD projector applications can be adapted to display use. Potential applications include night driving with natural depth perception, piloting of UAVs, fusion of multiple sensors for pilots, training, vision diagnostics and consumer gaming. Our design concept is described in which light from the DMD is imaged to infinity and the user's own eye lens forms a real image on the user's retina resulting in a virtual retinal display.

As 360 degrees immersive Mobile Virtual Reality (MVR) experiences are reaching a wider public, thanks to inexpensive and more powerful mobile technology available on the shelves, it is also rapidly growing as a research arena to investigate how to best design such VR experiences. Adding to this research direction, in this paper we report on an exploratory study designed to evaluate users perception in "Fragments of Laura", a mobile location-aware storytelling experience that uses MVR in a public setting. Results from the study encourage us to pursuit investigation as the experience was well received by the participants and provided an enjoyable experience, however, we discovered that there are still design challenges to overcome in order for MVR to be widely adopted within a public setting. Such as, finding the balance between multimedia and immersive multimedia, providing an "onboarding" time for such media and proper locations for the content consumption.

One of the major benefits of virtual reality (VR) lies in its ability to create a heightened sense of presence through visual and auditory modalities. To further enhance presence, research has investigated various ways to allow for tactile perception of objects in virtual environments. Among the different dimensions of tactile perception, thermal feedback is less explored, especially in the context of games which renders many existing approaches impractical due to their interference with game controllers. In this paper, we present Ethermal - a thermal feedback solution - designed to a) convey temperature information through the player's hands while b) still permitting the use of standard VR game controllers. An evaluation with 10 players, using the device in a custom-made virtual environment to demonstrate different use cases of thermal feedback, suggests that an increased feel of general and spatial presence and experienced realism can be achieved even with simple technological means.

What would be worse; losing your sight or your sense of touch? Although touch (more generally, somesthesis) is commonly underrated, major somesthetic loss can't be adequately compensated for by sight. It results in catastrophic impairments of hand dexterity, haptic capabilities, walking, perception of limb position, and so on. Providing users with inadequate somesthetic feedback in virtual environments might impair their, performance, just as major somesthetic loss does.

Intuitive interaction is the cornerstone of accurate and effective performance in remote robotic teleoperation. It requires high-fidelity in control actions as well as perception (vision, haptic, and other sensory feedback) of the remote environment. This paper presents Vicarios, a Virtual Reality (VR) based interface with the aim of facilitating intuitive real-time remote teleoperation, while utilizing the inherent benefits of VR, including immersive visualization, freedom of user viewpoint selection, and fluidity of interaction through natural action interfaces. Vicarios aims to enhance the situational awareness, using the concept of viewpoint-independent mapping between the operator and the remote scene, thereby giving the operator better control in the perception-action loop. The article describes the overall system of Vicarios, with its software, hardware, and communication framework. A comparative user study quantifies the impact of the interface and its features, including immersion and instantaneous user viewpoint changes, termed "teleporting", on users' performance. The results show that users' performance with the VR-based interface was either similar to or better than the baseline condition of traditional stereo video feedback, approving the realistic nature of the Vicarios interface. Furthermore, including the teleporting feature in VR significantly improved participants' performance and their appreciation for it, which was evident in the post-questionnaire results. Vicarios capitalizes on the intuitiveness and flexibility of VR to improve accuracy in remote teleoperation.

One of the challenging tasks in virtual scene design for Virtual Reality (VR) is causing it to invoke a particular mood in viewers. The subjective nature of moods brings uncertainty to the purpose. We propose a novel approach to automatic adjustment of the colors of textures for objects in a virtual indoor scene, enabling it to match a target mood. A dataset of 25,000 images, including building/home interiors, was used to train a classifier with the features extracted via deep learning. It contributes to an optimization process that colorizes virtual scenes automatically according to the target mood. Our approach was tested on four different indoor scenes, and we conducted a user study demonstrating its efficacy through statistical analysis with the focus on the impact of the scenes experienced with a VR headset.

Virtual-reality provides an immersive environment but can induce cybersickness due to the discrepancy between visual and vestibular cues. To avoid this problem, the movement of the virtual camera needs to match the motion of the user in the real world. Unfortunately, this is usually difficult due to the mismatch between the size of the virtual environments and the space available to the users in the physical domain. The resulting constraints on the camera movement significantly hamper the adoption of virtual-reality headsets in many scenarios and make the design of the virtual environments very challenging. In this work, we study how the characteristics of the virtual camera movement (e.g., translational acceleration and rotational velocity) and the composition of the virtual environment (e.g., scene depth) contribute to perceived discomfort. Based on the results from our user experiments, we devise a computational model for predicting the magnitude of the discomfort for a given scene and camera trajectory. We further apply our model to a new path planning method which optimizes the input motion trajectory to reduce perceptual sickness. We evaluate the effectiveness of our method in improving perceptual comfort in a series of user studies targeting different applications. The results indicate that our method can reduce the perceived discomfort while maintaining the fidelity of the original navigation, and perform better than simpler alternatives.

Low-vision conditions resulting in partial loss of the central visual field strongly affect patients' daily tasks and routines, and none more prominently than the ability to access text. Though vision aids such as magnifiers, digital screens, and text-to-speech devices can improve overall accessibility to text, news media, which is non-linear and has complex and volatile formatting, is still inaccessible, barring low-vision patients from easy access to essential news content. This position paper proposes virtual reality as a promising solution towards accessible and enjoyable news reading for low vision. We first provide an extensive review into existing research on low-vision reading technologies and visual accessibility solutions for modern news media. From previous research and studies, we then conduct an analysis into the advantages of virtual reality for low-vision reading and propose comprehensive guidelines for visual accessibility design in virtual reality, with a focus on reading. This is coupled with a hands-on survey of eight reading applications in virtual reality to evaluate how accessibility design is currently implemented in existing products. Finally, we present an open toolbox using browser-based graphics (WebGL) that implements the design principles from our study. A proof-of-concept is created using this toolbox to demonstrate the feasibility of our proposal with modern virtual reality technology. Z8 0

Current-generation virtual reality (VR) displays aim to generate perceptually realistic user experiences by accurately rendering many perceptually important effects including perspective, disparity, motion parallax, and other depth cues. We introduce ocular parallax rendering, a technology that renders small amounts of gaze-contingent parallax capable of further increasing perceptual realism in VR. Ocular parallax, small depth-dependent image shifts on the retina created as the eye rotates, occurs because the centers of rotation and projection of the eye are not the same. We study the perceptual implications of ocular parallax rendering by designing and conducting a series of user experiments. We estimate perceptual detection and discrimination thresholds for this effect and demonstrate that it is clearly visible in most VR applications. However, our studies also indicate that ocular parallax rendering does not significantly improve depth perception in VR.

We present AirRacket, perceptual modeling and design of ungrounded, directional force feedback for virtual racket sports. Using compressed air propulsion jets to provide directional impact forces, we iteratively designed for three popular sports that span a wide range of force magnitudes: ping-pong, badminton, and tennis. To address the limited force magnitude of ungrounded force feedback technologies, we conducted a perception study which discovered the novel illusion that users perceive larger impact force magnitudes with longer impact duration, by an average factor of 2.57x. Through a series of formative, perceptual, and user experience studies with a combined total of 72 unique participants, we explored several perceptual designs using force magnitude scaling and duration scaling methods to expand the dynamic range of perceived force magnitude. Our user experience evaluation showed that perceptual designs can significantly improve realism and preference vs. physics-based designs for ungrounded force feedback systems.

Collaborative training applications leveraging Augmented Reality (AR) are increasingly being used across various domains to provide immersive and interactive experiences. In this paper, we report on a user study designed to evaluate and compare user experiences across heterogeneous AR platforms used simultaneously within a collaborative co-located cybersecurity training application called Login PARtners. 36 participants were organised into pairs, with one participant using a Head-Mounted Display (HMD), HoloLens 2, and another a Hand-Held Device (HHD), an Android mobile phone, representing different affordability and availability spectra. Through a set of questionnaires, we investigated users' perception of the virtual environment's visual aspects, virtual object interaction and gestures, as well as collaboration, across both devices. While results showed some significant differences between HMD and HHD users, namely with respect to perceived virtual object three-dimensionality and interaction intuitiveness, both participant groups generally found the collaborative experience to be successful.

In traditional design, the foundational material expresses three-dimensional concepts, blending artisanal skills, visual perception, and cognitive processes. Modern computer-aided design shifts this process to digital manipulation, increasing efficiency but reducing the connection between sensory experiences. Recent advancements in immersive technologies rapidly progress interaction methodologies. Real-time systems, with features like gesture recognition, enable customized sensory perception and communication in the design process. Importantly, these technologies seamlessly integrate digital models into the tangible world through Mixed Reality (MR) technology and inter-sensory connections while simplifying the modelling process. In the current project, the utilization of digital twins emerges as a strategic approach, orchestrating a harmonious fusion of visual and tactile senses. The paper crafting processing methodology was analysed using it as a foundational reference, while concurrently simplifying the user gesture and modelling system. Utilizing three motion-driven sensors to simulate movements during the paper folding process, an operational platform integrating immersive technology was developed. This platform enables users to model intricate cylindrical structures, thereby illustrating the feasibility of achieving architectural modelling with potential applications in participatory design and smart building technologies construction.

Haptic feedback is the sensory modality to enhance the so-called "immersion", meant as the extent to which senses are engaged by the mediated environment during virtual reality applications. However, it can be challenging to meet this requirement using conventional robotic design approaches that rely on rigid mechanical systems with limited workspace and bandwidth. An alternative solution can be seen in the adoption of lightweight wearable systems equipped with Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES): in fact, NMES offers a wide range of different forces and qualities of haptic feedback. In this study, we present an experimental setup able to enrich the virtual reality experience by employing NMES to create in the antagonists' muscles the haptic sensation of being loaded. We developed a subject-specific biomechanical model that estimated elbow torque during object lifting to deliver suitable electrical muscle stimulations. We experimentally tested our system by exploring the differences between the implemented NMES-based haptic feedback (NMES condition), a physical lifted object (Physical condition), and a condition without haptic feedback (Visual condition) in terms of kinematic response, metabolic effort, and participants' perception of fatigue. Our results showed that both in terms of metabolic consumption and user fatigue perception, the condition with electrical stimulation and the condition with the real weight differed significantly from the condition without any load: the implemented feedback was able to faithfully reproduce interactions with objects, suggesting its possible application in different areas such as gaming, work risk assessment simulation, and education.

This article explores the synergistic interaction among the geometric field of view (GFOV), proprioceptive interaction and multimodal feedback in a virtual environment. We hypothesise that, with proprioceptive interaction and multimodal feedback, the GFOV can be set larger than its reference value originally set to give similar distance perception when viewed with a given physical field of view of a head mounted display. This in turn would help a user carry out a task more effectively with the increased visibility. We tested our hypothesis with an experiment to measure the user's change in distance perception according to different values of egocentric GFOV and task/feedback conditions (15 subjects). Our experimental results have shown that, when coupled with proprioceptive interaction, the GFOV could be increased up to 170% of the reference without introducing change in user's distance perception. When additional visual and tactile feedback was introduced, the GFOV could be increased up to 200%. The results offer a useful guideline for designing multimodal interfaces for close range spatial tasks in virtual environments. In addition, it demonstrates one way to overcome the inadequacy of the narrow physical fields of view often found in most general purpose head mounted displays.

Intelligent Virtual Agents (IVAs) can provide users with a friendly experience and have a wide range of appli-cations in the era of artificial intelligence. However, most of existing IVAs are designed for personal computers. Design and user studies of IVAs on smartphones are uncommon. Therefore, developing IVAs for smartphones is an interesting topic. Considering Augmented Reality (AR) technology can provide more potential application value for IVAs, we mainly investigate users' experiences of AR IVAs on smartphones in this paper. To make an IVA more suitable for a smartphone, a lightweight IVA's cognitive architecture is proposed. To find out the factors that affect users' interaction experiences, the effects of humanoid embodiment and emotional expressions of IVAs on users' perceptions and experiences are explored. A museum is used as a specific task scenario to measure users' experiences. Three forms of AR agents are evaluated in this scenario: a voice assistant without an entity, a humanoid IVA without emotional expressions, and a humanoid IVA with emotional expressions. The results show that compared with the voice assistant, a humanoid embodiment can significantly improve the user's experience, and compared with humanoid IVA without emotional expressions, a humanoid IVA with emotional expressions is more welcome. Moreover, we use the cloud model to describe the uncertainty of IVAs' actions (blinking and body orientation). The results show that the uncertainty of actions can increase the believability of IVAs.

Virtual reality (VR) has been widely used to simulate various real-like environments suitable to explore and interact, similar to being genuinely there (i.e., allowing presence). User experience in virtual environments (VE) is highly subjective, and presence-based self-reports have addressed its assessment; however, it is unclear how a diverse set of VR features relates to the subscales of the questionnaires (e.g., engagement, immersion, or Attention), which could be helpful to create and improve immersive VE. Consequently, most current studies have appealed to self-defined criteria to design their VE in response to a lack of accepted methodological frameworks. Therefore, we systematically reviewed the current publications to identify critical design elements to promote presence and realistic experiences in VR-games users. We extracted information from different databases (Scopus, Web of Science, PubMed, ACM, IEEE, Springer, and Scholar) and used inclusion and exclusion criteria to reduce the original set of 595 candidates to 53 final papers. The findings showed that better quality and quantity in resources allocation (software and hardware) and more accuracy in objects and characters, which all refer to higher immersion, provide Place Illusion (PI), i.e., the spatial dimension of presence. Furthermore, Scenario's Realism, external stimuli, and coherent match between virtual and real worlds (including body representation) are decisive to set Plausibility Illusion (PSI), i.e., the dimension associated with coherence. Finally, performance feedback, character customization, and multiplayer mechanics are crucial to assure motivation and agency, which are user-exclusive but crucial to defining presence's perception. Moreover, about 65% of the analyzed studies agreed that immersive media and social interaction could simultaneously influence PI and PSI.

Virtual Reality (VR) headsets have made immersive 3D drawing available to the general public. However, compared to 2D drawing, the presence of an additional dimension makes sketching in VR challenging, since creating precise strokes that are positioned as intended in all three dimensions imposes higher demands on the users' perception, motor and spatial skills. Another challenge users face is creating accurate shapes in which strokes are positioned correctly relative to previous ones, as they may need to use different views to plan their next hand movement. In this paper, we analyze the behaviours of users with different spatial abilities while drawing in VR. Our results indicate that there are different types of behaviours that affect different aspects of the sketches. We also found that the user's spatial ability affects the shape of the drawing, but not the line precision. Finally, we give recommendations for designing 3D drawing interfaces.

Stereoscopic depth is often included in the design of tele-operation or Virtual Reality (VR) systems, with the expectation that it will enhance a participant's feeling of presence in a scene, and improve perceptual accuracy. Our aim here was to test the latter assertion: is human stereoscopic depth perception accurate? We examined how well humans can use stereoscopic information to perceive and respond to a simple object undergoing three dimensional (3-D) motion. Observers viewed a scene containing a stationary reference point and a target point that moved towards them in depth, along a range of trajectories, to the left or right of straight towards their nose. How good should performance be? Simple geometry can be used to show that the average and difference of the left and right eye's projections can be used to estimate trajectory angles. How good is human performance? In several different tasks, results suggested that although observers could distinguish between different trajectories precisely, their accuracy of perception was very poor. Angles were perceived as up to 3-5 times wider than was physically specified. This suggests that stereoscopic depth does not provide accurate perception in simple environments and has implications for the design of 3-D Virtual Environments.

The idea of in-situ visualization for surgical procedures has been widely discussed in the community [1, 2,3,4]. While the tracking technology offers nowadays a sufficient accuracy and visualization devices have been developed that fit seamlessly into the operational workflow [1, 3], one crucial problem remains, which has been discussed already in the first paper on medical augmented reality [4]. Even though the data is presented at the correct place, the physician often perceives the spatial position of the visualization to be closer or further because of virtual/real overlay. This paper describes and evaluates novel visualization techniques that are designed to overcome misleading depth perception of trivially superimposed virtual images on the real view. We have invited 20 surgeons to evaluate seven different visualization techniques using a head mounted display (HMD). The evaluation has been divided into two parts. In the first part, the depth perception of each kind of visualization is evaluated quantitatively. In the second part, the visualizations are evaluated qualitatively in regard to user friendliness and intuitiveness. This evaluation with a relevant number of surgeons using a state-of-the-art system is meant to guide future research and development on medical augmented reality.

This study investigates the key factors that affect visual realism in Augmented Reality (AR) user experience. Recognizing the importance of visual realism in enhancing user engagement and integrating virtual elements into the real world, we embarked on a comprehensive exploration of these factors. Our study included an extensive literature review, identifying key parameters beyond conventional elements. A structured questionnaire was designed to systematically capture users' perceptions, involving participants from diverse backgrounds engaging with simulated AR scenarios. Our research carefully adjusted variables such as light(type, intensity, color), shadows(intensity, direction), material properties(texture, roughness), depth occlusion, field of view (FoV), gamma correction value, and high dynamic range(HDR), and categorized participants based on their experience with rendering software to ensure a targeted analysis. Our results showed that various rendering variables all played a role in influencing users' perception of visual realism in AR. Notably, among these variables, light source color and shadows direction had a relatively minor impact compared to others, while material texture and roughness had the most pronounced effects on visual realism perception. Furthermore, our results indicated that users' prior experience with rendering software had no significant influence on their judgments of visual realism. The study contributes to the understanding of factors impacting visual realism in AR, providing valuable insights for refining AR application design and development and optimizing user engagement and satisfaction.

Virtual worlds are three-dimensional (3D) persistent multi-user online environments where users interact through avatars. The affordances of virtual worlds can be useful for business-to-consumer e-commerce. Moreover, affordances of virtual worlds can complement affordances of websites to provide consumers with an enhanced e-commerce experience. We investigated which affordances of virtual worlds can enhance consumers' experiences on e-commerce websites. We conducted laddering interviews with 30 virtual world consumers to understand their perceptions of virtual world affordances. A means-end analysis was then applied to the interview data. The results suggest co-presence, product discovery, 3D product experience, greater interactivity with products and sociability are some of the key virtual world affordances for consumers. We discuss theoretical implications of the research using dimensions from the Technology Acceptance Model. We also discuss practical implications, such as how virtual world affordances can be incorporated into the design of e-commerce websites.

Developing believable virtual characters has been a subject of research in many fields including graphics, animations, artificial intelligence, and human-computer interaction. One challenge towards commoditizing the use of virtual humans is the ability to algorithmically construct characters of different stereotypes. In this paper, we present our efforts in designing virtual characters that can exhibit non-verbal behaviors to reflect varying degrees of warmth and competence, two personality traits shown to underlie social judgments and form stereotypical perception. To embark on developing a computational behavior model that portrays these traits, we adopt an iterative design methodology tuning the design using theory from theatre, animation and psychology, expert reviews, user testing and feedback. Using this process we were able to construct a set of virtual characters that portray variations of warmth and competence through combination of gestures, use of space, and gaze behaviors. In this paper we discuss the design methodology, the resultant system, and initial experiment results showing the promise of the model.

We present an event-based interactive storytelling system for virtual 3D environments that aims to offer free-form user experiences while constraining the narrative to follow author intent. The characters of our stories are represented as smart objects, each having their own state and set of capabilities that they expose to the virtual world. Our narratives are represented as a collection of branching stories, where narrative flow is controlled by author-defined states. A user model is employed to evaluate the user's engagement with smart objects and events, based on proximity, interaction patterns and visibility to the user. A two-level online planning system is designed to find the best narrative trajectory along pre-authored stories, according to the user model, and to generate a story sequence to the best trajectory with Monte Carlo Tree Search. We present the capabilities of our interactive storytelling system on an example story and describe the adaptations required for modeling user engagement in AR and VR applications.

Typical handheld controllers for interaction in virtual reality (VR) have fixed shapes and sizes, regardless of what visual objects they represent. Resolving this crossmodal incongruence with a shape-changing interface is our long-term goal. In this paper, we seek to find a length perception model that considers the moment of inertia (MOI) and diameter of a handheld object based on the concept of dynamic touch. Such models serve as a basis for computational algorithms for shape changing. We carried out two perceptual experiments. In Experiment 1, we measured the perceived lengths of 24 physical objects with different MOIs and diameters. Then we obtained a length perception model to reproduce the desired perceived length with a handheld controller. In Experiment 2, we validated our model in a crossmodal matching scenario, where a visual rod was matched to a haptic rod in terms of the perceived length. Our results contribute to understanding the relationship between the perceived length and physical properties of a handheld object and designing shape-changing algorithms to render equivalent visual and haptic sensory cues for length perception in VR.

With the advancement of technology, museums are evolving beyond static displays of artifacts to become more innovative and interactive cultural hubs. Embodied cognition plays a crucial role in this transformation. Cognition is the process of understanding and interacting with the world through physical means such as senses, movement, and spatial perception. In museums, it influences how we experience exhibits, remember history, and comprehend culture. Concurrently, the integration of mixed reality technology can extend existing spatial scenarios, assisting museums in integrating key information within exhibition spaces, thereby enhancing the overall user experience. This paper, grounded in the 4E cognition theory (Embodied Cognition, Extended Cognition, Embedded Cognition, and Enactive Cognition) and incorporating the Vision OS experience elements, employs a combined approach of qualitative and quantitative research methods. It explores the primary factors influencing participants' museum experiences and proposes a new model to measure the impact of mixed reality on museum visitors' experiences and cognition, providing new theoretical tools for advancing museum digitization efforts and the design practices of mixed reality experiences.

This paper presents a novel interactive system that provides users with virtual reality (VR) experiences, wherein users feel as if they are ascending/descending stairs through passive haptic feedback. The passive haptic stimuli are provided by small bumps under the feet of users; these stimuli are provided to represent the edges of the stairs in the virtual environment. The visual stimuli of the stairs and shoes, provided by head-mounted displays, evoke a visuo-haptic interaction that modifies a user's perception of the floor shape. Our system enables users to experience all types of stairs, such as half-turn and spiral stairs, in a VR setting. We conducted a preliminary user study and two experiments to evaluate the proposed technique. The preliminary user study investigated the effectiveness of the basic idea associated with the proposed technique for the case of a user ascending stairs. The results demonstrated that the passive haptic feedback produced by the small bumps enhanced the user's feeling of presence and sense of ascending. We subsequently performed an experiment to investigate an improved viewpoint manipulation method and the interaction of the manipulation and haptics for both the ascending and descending cases. The experimental results demonstrated that the participants had a feeling of presence and felt a steep stair gradient under the condition of haptic feedback and viewpoint manipulation based on the characteristics of actual stair walking data. However, these results also indicated that the proposed system may not be as effective in providing a sense of descending stairs without an optimization of the haptic stimuli. We then redesigned the shape of the small bumps, and evaluated the design in a second experiment. The results indicated that the best shape to present haptic stimuli is a right triangle cross section in both the ascending and descending cases. Although it is necessary to install small protrusions in the determined direction, by using this optimized shape the users feeling of presence of the stairs and the sensation of walking up and down was enhanced.

We present novel methods designed to elevate the realism of augmented reality (AR) applications focusing specifically on optical see-through devices. Our work integrates shadow rendering methods for multiple light sources and dynamic occlusion culling techniques. By creating custom surface shaders we can manage multiple light sources in real-time, augmenting depth perception and spatial coherence. Furthermore, the dynamic occlusion culling system handles occluded objects, ensuring a more convincing and seamless user experience. Several cases and methods are presented with their results for various lighting and spatial conditions, promising a more enhanced and immersive user experience in various AR domains.

The use of Cave Automated Virtual Environments (CAVEs) in design has been well documented over many years. CAVES often involve expensive, state-of-the-art hardware and software precluding their widespread use. This paper presents the prototyping of a portable, easy-to-use, Non-expensive Automated Virtual Environment (NAVE) test bed that allows experiments to be conducted within Virtual Environments (VEs). Using commercially available authoring software, a testing prototype was created that allows users to dynamically change a number of factors. Hardware has been adapted that allows these factors to be tested, using a Wii controller, data projectors/monitors or head-mounted displays (HMDs), wireless headphones, buttons, and foot pads. A NAVE system has been created that can be rapidly deployed, and allows users to either fly, walk-in-place or walk around a limited area, with varying levels of immersion. Based on the system, this paper also investigates a user's ability to perceive audio sources in a 3D environment with varying Fields-of-View (FOV). The experimental design of the study and the results are also discussed.

Existing literature in the field of extended reality has demonstrated that visual/auditory manipulations can change a person's perception and behavior. For example, a mismatch between the physical self and the virtual self can have psychological and behavioral implications. There are many different approaches that can incur a perceptual change. An under-explored field of research are gradual and subtle manipulations, such as scaling the food one eats or scaling the heads of people one sees. In this position paper, I provide an overview of my prior PhD research focusing on means to gradually and seamlessly scale visual and auditory stimuli in extended reality, and investigations of the corresponding changes in human perception.

As a typical application of human-machine fusion intelligence, the exoskeleton is an indispensable intelligent interaction device for virtual reality. At present, there are an increasing number of studies on virtual reality systems using exoskeleton technology, especially in the field of medical rehabilitation. In this paper, for the first time, a virtual reality system with the application of exoskeleton technology is considered as the research object. We refer to three key human-machine interaction processes: recognition, perception, and feedback. The virtual reality system that uses exoskeleton technology is divided into positioning technology, multisensory interaction, and feedback technology. First, this study conducts literature research and then summarizes the technical characteristics, system architecture, and research status for key content such as positioning technology, multisensory interaction, and feedback technology. Finally, the three research aspects of the virtual reality system applying exoskeleton technology are summarized, considered, and prospected.

The collaboration in co-located shared environments has sparked an increased interest in immersive technologies, including Augmented Reality (AR). Since research in this field has primarily focused on individual user experiences in AR, the collaborative aspects within shared AR spaces remain less explored, and fewer studies can provide guidelines for designing this type of experience. This article investigates how the user experience in a collaborative shared AR space is affected by divergent perceptions of virtual objects and the effects of positional synchrony and avatars. For this purpose, we developed an AR app and used two distinct experimental conditions to study the influencing factors. Forty-eight participants, organized into 24 pairs, participated in the experiment and jointly interacted with shared virtual objects. Results indicate that divergent perceptions of virtual objects did not directly influence communication and collaboration dynamics. Conversely, positional synchrony emerged as a critical factor, significantly enhancing the quality of the collaborative experience. On the contrary, while not negligible, avatars played a relatively less pronounced role in influencing these dynamics. These findings can potentially offer valuable practical insights, guiding the development of future collaborative AR/VR environments.

Virtual agents are typical assistance tools for navigation and interaction in Virtual Reality (VR) tour, training, education, etc. It has been demonstrated that the gaits, gestures, gazes, and positions of virtual agents are major factors that affect the user's perception and experience for seated and standing VR. In this paper, we present a novel position-aware virtual agent locomotion method, called PAVAL, that can perform virtual agent positioning (position+orientation) in real time for room-scale VR navigation assistance. We first analyze design guidelines for virtual agent locomotion and model the problem using the positions of the user and the surrounding virtual objects. Then we conduct a one-off preliminary study to collect subjective data and present a model for virtual agent positioning prediction with fixed user position. Based on the model, we propose an algorithm to optimize the object of interest, virtual agent position, and virtual agent orientation in sequence for virtual agent locomotion. As a result, during user navigation in a virtual scene, the virtual agent automatically moves in real time and introduces virtual object information to the user. We evaluate PAVAL and two alternative methods via a user study with humanoid virtual agents in various scenes, including virtual museum, factory, and school gym. The results reveal that our method is superior to the baseline condition.

Immersive media technologies, such as virtual and augmented reality, have recently enabled a more holistic way to comprehend natural hazards. In this work, we aim at visualizing the temporal and spatial evolution of a debris flow in a virtual reality environment. We develop a framework to integrate the output results obtained from a debris flow numerical model into virtual reality. To guide the framework, a real debris flow event, which happened in Hunnedalen (Norway) in 2016 and blocked a road network, is considered as a case study. The debris flow is back-calculated using a depth-averaged numerical model and the simulation results are imported into a dedicated game engine to construct a digital model of the debris flow event. The debris flow is visualized using a Head-Mounted Display. We therefore discuss a wide range of potential applications of virtual reality to manage and grasp landslide phenomena: training for rescue operations; improving decision-making; studying early warning systems, and educating communities affected by natural hazards. We finally provide a quantitative evaluation of the hazard perception for a road user. We show that the debris flow movement is perceived at variable delayed times from the triggering of the landslide, depending on the position along the road where the debris flow is observed. Evaluating the realistic perception time of the natural hazard may be fundamental to designing more effective road networks, signs, and mitigation measures.

Haptic feedback in Virtual Reality (VR) facilitates the transfer of virtual experiences into the physical world. In particular, haptic feedback in architectural design enables designers to feel the materiality of their creations, with the possibility to apply different materials, refine designs based on the haptic experience, and assess requirements at an early stage. In this paper, we assess an innovative end-effector based on an origami structure and a robotic gripper that can provide a real-time simulation of material elasticity and stiffness without requiring a prop change, offering a cost-effective and energy-efficient solution. The evaluation consisted of a perceptual study where participants used the origami end-effector and had to push a thin virtual wall in VR. We tested three types of stiffness rendering (Soft, Medium, and Stiff). Participants had to answer how stiff the rendering was and which type of material they could refer to when touching the virtual wall. Results showed that although the stiffness perception across conditions was not significant, participants reported different types of materials depending on the condition. We also discuss the potential of origami-based end-effectors for improving haptic interaction for architectural design in VR.

Virtual reality expands the possibilities of human action. With hand-tracking technology, we can directly interact with these environments without the need for a mediating controller. Much previous research has looked at the user-avatar relationship. Here we explore the avatar-object relationship by manipulating the visual congruence and haptic feedback of the virtual object of interaction. We examine the effect of these variables on the sense of agency (SoA), which refers to the feeling of control over our actions and their effects. This psychological variable is highly relevant to user experience and is attracting increased interest in the field. Our results showed that implicit SoA was not significantly affected by visual congruence and haptics. However, both of these manipulations significantly affected explicit SoA, which was strengthened by the presence of mid-air haptics and was weakened by the presence of visual incongruence. We propose an explanation of these findings that draws on the cue integration theory of SoA. We also discuss the implications of these findings for HCI research and design. Z8 0

Memory training methods are often not designed for all age groups, which causes older people to be failed by educational systems. However, the brain remains plastic for a lifetime. The application discussed in this paper demonstrates how approaches to learning psychology can be implemented in virtual reality to create an individualized learning environment that addresses all age groups. In addition, personal memoirs were used to address the episodic part of the brain and to increase motivation. In a small usability study, twelve participants tested the application and filled out a questionnaire. This showed that the design and usability of this application, using a virtual learning environment customized to the user as well as different perception channels, has been successful. Moreover, the well-being was rated positively as well.

The immersive viewing environment of Virtual Reality (VR) system inevitably brings motion sickness to users, and restricts the development of VR system to a certain extent. In order to solve the problem of motion sickness when users view, it is necessary to predicate the motion sickness degree of the visual content. However, the methods based on subjective questionnaires or physiological signals will become cumbersome and infeasible with the growth of demand and supply of VR content. Most of the existing prediction methods for motion sickness are designed for 2D panoramic video. In this paper, a motion sickness prediction method based on content perception and binocular characteristics is proposed for stereoscopic panoramic video. The proposed method mainly consists of two modules: feature extraction based on content analysis and time pooling. The feature extraction module takes into account the attention mechanism of human visual system and the multi-channel characteristics of retina, and simulates the sensory conflict and the three-stage process of binocular stereoscopic perception in virtual environment. The time pooling module takes into account the time memory effect of human eyes. The proposed method has achieved excellent prediction performance on stereoscopic panoramic video comfort database SPVCD, its predication results have a good correlation with the subjective scores, which shows that the proposed method can effectively predict the motion sickness degree of VR content.(c) 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

An Augmented Reality (AR) system is a technology that overlays digital information, such as images, sounds, or text, onto a user's view of the real world, providing an enriched and interactive experience of the surrounding environment. It has evolved into a potent instrument for improving human perception and decision-making across various domains, including industrial, automotive, healthcare, and urban planning. This systematic literature review aims to offer a comprehensive understanding of AR technology, its limitations, and implementation challenges in the most significant areas of application in engineering and beyond. The review will explore the state-of-the-art AR techniques, their potential use cases, and the barriers to widespread adoption, while also identifying future research directions and opportunities for innovation in the rapidly evolving field of augmented reality. This study works as a compilation of the existing technologies in the subject, especially useful for beginners in AR or as a starting point for developers who seek to innovate or implement new technologies, thus knowing the limitations and current challenges that could arise.

Vibrations can significantly enhance touch perception for virtual environment applications with minimal design complexity and cost. In order to create realistic vibrotactile feedback, we collected vibrations, forces, and velocities during various tasks executed with a stylus: tapping on materials, stroking textures, and puncturing membranes. Empirical models were fit to these waveforms and a library of model parameters was compiled. These models simulated tasks involving simultaneous display of forces and vibrations on a high-bandwidth force-feedback joystick. Vibration feedback adds little complexity to virtual environment algorithms. Human subjects interacting with the system showed improved execution and perception when performing surface feature discrimination tasks.

Digital Twin can provide emergency response staff with large quantities of useful information about the emergency. However, the capability of the staff to understand and use the information correctly is equally as important. Hence, regular crisis management training is required in sophisticated manufacturing systems. Still, the time and location constraints limit the frequency of conducting such practices. As such, virtual reality-based crisis management training methods were proposed in the literature. However, little research was conducted to investigate the underlying mechanisms that drive both the perception and the adoption of virtual reality for crisis management training among users. To address this research gap, this study proposed a research model to examine the effects of perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, perceived behavioral control, application-specific self-efficacy, and attitude on users' acceptance of the system. A partial least squares structural equation modeling approach was used for model testing based on 103 valid observations. The results demonstrated that the constructs proposed in our study determined user acceptance of the system, and the research model was able to explain 60% of the variance in behavioral intention. The likelihood of acceptance of related technologies may be increased by applying the findings of this study. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) systems are useful tools that enable users to alter environmental settings and the location of landmarks in an accurate and fast way. Primates have been shown to be able to navigate in virtual environments. For rodents, however, all previous attempts to develop VR systems in which rats behave in the same way as in corresponding 3-D environments have failed. The question arises as to whether, in principle, rodents can be trained to navigate in a properly designed virtual environment (VE), or whether this peculiarity is limited to primates and humans. We built a virtual reality set-up that takes the wide-angle visual system of rats into account. We show for the first time that rats learn spatial tasks in this VE quite readily. This set-up opens up new opportunities for investigations of information processing in navigation (e.g. the importance of optic flow or vestibular input). Z8 4

Mixed Reality provides a powerful medium for transparent and effective human-robot communication, especially for robots with significant physical limitations (e.g., those without arms). To enhance nonverbal capabilities for armless robots, this article presents two studies that explore two different categories of mixed reality deictic gestures for armless robots: a virtual arrow positioned over a target referent (a non-ego-sensitive allocentric gesture) and a virtual arm positioned over the gesturing robot (an ego-sensitive allocentric gesture). In Study 1, we explore the tradeoffs between these two types of gestures with respect to both objective performance and subjective social perceptions. Our results show fundamentally different task-oriented versus social benefits, with non-ego-sensitive allocentric gestures enabling faster reaction time and higher accuracy, but ego-sensitive gestures enabling higher perceived social presence, anthropomorphism, and likability. In Study 2, we refine our design recommendations by showing that in fact these different gestures should not be viewed as mutually exclusive alternatives, and that by using them together, robots can achieve both task-oriented and social benefits.

While traditional video conferencing causes privacy issues, virtual meetings are not yet widely used. Their communication quality still lacks usability and important non-verbal communication cues, such as body language, are underrepresented. We aim at exploring virtual avatars' body language and how it can be used to indicate meeting attendees' communication status. By comparing users' perceptions of avatar behavior, we found that avatar body language across gender can be an indication of communication willingness. We derive resulting body language design recommendations and recommend using attentively behaving avatars as default body language and to indicate being busy through actions of the avatar, such as drinking, typing, or talking on a phone. These actions indicate that users are temporarily busy with another task, but still are attending the meeting. When users are unavailable, their avatars should not be displayed at all and in cases of longer meeting interruptions, the avatar of a user should leave the virtual meeting room.

Electrical repair tasks across domains use a common set of skills that combine problem solving, fine motor and spatial skills. Augmented Reality (AR) helps develop these skills by overlaying virtual objects on the real-world. So we designed a hand held AR-based wiring tutor which incorporates Constraint-Based Modelling (CBM) paradigms to detect learner errors in an electrical wiring task. We compared the performance and usability of our prototype with a state of the art hand held AR-based training system with a consistent user interface (UI) design, which lacks CBM approaches. Although, the CBM condition had significantly lower usability scores than the state of the art, participants using the CBM approach reported higher practical scores. We discuss reasons for the usability differences, including potential for positive perceptions of the system to be distorted by critical feedback needed to regulate learning in the electrical wiring domain. Next steps would include using the same system to evaluate the theoretical and practical learning outcomes.

The tourism industry will be shaped by the growth and development of the metaverse in the coming decades. Virtual reality (VR) will enable the creation of virtual worlds, avatars, digital twins, and new social networks. These technologies can be utilized in tourism to enable travelers to preview real-world experiences, to enhance experiences while on-site, to relive experiences after travel, or in some cases to even substitute for travel. Given the metaverse's transformative potential, empirical investigation of VR is clearly warranted. Studies of VR tourism typically choose a single specific VR application and investigate its impact on adoption or user satisfaction. This application-level focus is a significant limitation. We therefore evaluate multiple heritage tourism applications as well as VR hardware in a comprehensive and structured analysis from the user experience (UX) perspective. Our content analysis of user interviews reveals 13 factors that shape users' overall perceptions about VR. These factors are grouped into categories related to presentation of the VR content, the content itself, and the functionality of the hardware and software. Our analysis also reveals three design dilemmas for creators of VR heritage tourism content for the metaverse. Implications and an agenda for future research are included.

One of the major goals of Universal Design is to create experiences that are inclusive to all users, including those affected by Color Vision Deficiency. Color Vision Deficiency might have a significant impact on a users' perception of the content or the environment. There is a range of tools already available, that can be used to either aid or automate the process of readability testing for digital interfaces and content in respect to Color Vision Deficiency. Two different approaches to addressing this issue can be found. A brief review of such methodologies is provided in this paper. The first approach (user-end) attempts to solve the problem by altering mediation between the user and the content. The second (design-end) allows the designer to view an image, or color scheme altered to recreate the perceptual experience of a user affected by Color Vision Deficiency and asses the design from the perspective of a color-blind user. With an implemented proof-of-concept we investigate the potential use of Virtual Reality Head-Mounted Displays to employ similar methodology, to allow designers or interior decorators to experience physical environments (i.e.: classroom, library or a cafeteria) from the perspective of a color-blind person. Such tools might increase the designers' empathy towards color-blind users but also allow them to identify visual components, such as infographics or advertisement, in a physical environment that are poorly visible to color-blind users. Such tools could be developed by taking advantage of a modern Head-Mounted Displays six degrees of freedom tracking, a 360 camera and color processing filters applied during post-processing at run-time, allowing a designer to easily switch between different types of colorblindness emulation.

This paper presents a new approach of user-oriented design for transforming users' perception into product elements design. An experimental study on mobile phones is conducted to examine how product form and product color affect product image individually and as a whole. The concept of Kansei Engineering is used to extract the experimental samples as a data base for Quantitative Theory Type I and neural networks (NNs). The result of numerical analysis suggests that mobile phone makers need to provide various product colors to attract users, in addition to product forms. This paper demonstrates the advantage of using NNs for determining the optimal combination of product form and product color, particularly if the product into design elements. Based on the analysis of NNs, we can use 72 representative product colors of each mobile phone to develop a product color data base consisting of 16777216 ( = 256 x 256 x 256, True-Color model) colors with the associated product image. The design data base provides useful insights to save any amount of money and time for the new product development. The product designers can input a product image to work out an adequate color on a mobile phone. Furthermore, the design data base can be used, in conjunction with computer-aided design system or virtual reality technology, to build a 3D model for facilitating the design process of mobile phones. Although, the mobile phones are chosen as the object of the experimental study, this approach can be applied to other products with various design elements. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Internet of Things (IoT) provides a wide range of services to improve convenience and comfort in our daily lives. However, various sensors equipped on IoT devices often raise privacy concerns. Prior works on privacy focus on passive protection from the data and device perspective, such as data encryption and communication protocol design. In this work, we introduce PrivaSee, an augmented reality (AR)-enabled privacy visualization platform to empower users with proactive privacy protection by enhancing their understanding of privacy perception for multimodal sensors.

Humans coordinate teamwork by conveying intent through social cues, such as gestures and gaze behaviors. However, these methods may not be possible for appearance-constrained robots that lack anthropomorphic or zoomorphic features, such as aerial robots. We explore a new design space for communicating robot motion intent by investigating how augmented reality (AR) might mediate human-robot interactions. We develop a series of explicit and implicit designs for visually signaling robot motion intent using AR, which we evaluate in a user study. We found that several of our AR designs significantly improved objective task efficiency over a baseline in which users only received physically-embodied orientation cues. In addition, our designs offer several trade-offs in terms of intent clarity and user perceptions of the robot as a teammate.

Time experience is an essential part of one's perception of any environment, real or virtual. In this paper, from a virtual environment design perspective, we explore how rhythmic stimuli can influence an unrelated cognitive task regarding time experience and performance in virtual reality. The task involves sorting 3D objects by shape, with varying rhythmic stimuli in terms of their tempo and sensory channel (auditory and/or visual) in different trials, to collect subjective measures of time estimation and judgment. The results indicate different effects on time experience and performance depending on the context, such as user fatigue and trial repetition. Depending on the context, a positive impact of audio stimuli or a negative impact of visual stimuli on task performance can be observed, as well as time being underestimated concerning tempo in relation to task familiarity. However, some effects are consistent regardless of context, such as time being judged to pass faster with additional stimuli or consistent correlations between participants' performance and time experience, suggesting flow-related aspects. This could be of great interest for designing virtual environments, as purposeful stimuli can strongly influence task performance and time experience, both essential components of virtual environment user experience.

Although time can be measured objectively, human time perception is remarkably subjective and influenced by cognitive states, individual motivations, and social factors. This malleability of perceived time can be evidenced, for instance, in stressful situations where one might experience a lack of time, while one might lose track of time in more relaxing circumstances. Based on fundamental knowledge from psychology and cognitive science, the ChronoPilot project aims at developing a prototype technology driven by artificial intelligence to extend or compress human subjective time adaptively and whenever required. Mediated-reality approaches, such as virtual and augmented reality, have enormous potential for presenting the users with visual, auditory, and haptic stimulation patterns that directly or indirectly influence their subjective time and which are difficult to reproduce in the real world. Going beyond individual settings, ChronoPilot will also investigate how to coordinate time plasticity in collaborative environments where one group member's actions may affect other members' perception. Different scenarios, where humans alone or humans and robots have to collaborate in realistic and virtual environments, will validate the planned research. In this paper, we present the fundamental concepts of our project ChronoPilot, which is a work in progress.

The experimentation of new effective visualization techniques provides viable technological solutions for the archaeological heritage fruition and the visitors involvement within cultural places (museums, gallery, archaeological sites). This article discusses the feasibility of a project aimed at extending outdoor the fruition of archaeological sites, by exploiting mixed reality technology. In a previous work we focused on the development of a mobile application that exploits the Augmented Reality technology, limited to an indoor fruition. Therefore we decided to extend the app by introducing a strategy for an on-site outdoor exploration based on "virtual portals". Virtual portals are the medium that allows the transition from reality (present) to virtuality (past) and vice versa. They are located outdoor at some point of interest, so that user has the perception of passing through different space-temporal dimensions: this is actually what we want to provide as user personal experience. We considered two archaeological areas as case studies, both excavations sites of the University of Salento, as an instance of a wider network we aim to create. In this paper we give some hints about a feasible design for this project.

The purpose of this study is to introduce a new and efficient virtual model-based ergonomic simulation framework utilizing recent anthropometric data for a digitalized main control room in an advanced nuclear power plant. The system interface of the main control room has been undergoing digitalization via various information and control consoles. Console operators often face human-computer interactive problems due to inappropriate console design. Computational models with a process of visual perception and variables of anthropometric data are developed for designing and evaluating operator consoles with the requirements of human factor guidelines. From the 3D computational model and simulation application, console dimensions and a designing test module, which would be used for designing suitable consoles with safety concerns in a nuclear plant, are proposed. To efficiently carry out console design and evaluation feedback, an intelligent design review system comprising a virtual modeling and simulation framework is developed. The proposed automated and virtual design review system provides console design efficiency and evaluation effectiveness. This study may influence methods of employing suitable design concepts with various anthropometric data in many areas with safety concerns and may show a feasible solution to designing and evaluating the main control room.

This study used augmented virtuality with an overall aim to prevent undernourishment among older adults. The purpose was to facilitate remote social eating for solitary older adults, as people tend to eat more when socializing. In this study, an augmented virtuality application was developed in which a physical cake buffet and a virtual living room coexisted and interacted in real time. This was possible using an Oculus Rift CV1 HMD with an Intel Realsense SR300 depth sensor mounted on top of the HMD. The study included initial workshops with 30 experts and 16 older adults, prototyping with 7 mobility-restricted older adults, and a final user study with 27 older adults. In the user study, we evaluated the user experience of a system designed to establish a meal conversation between three older friends while eating a solitary meal in augmented virtuality. Within three overall factors (user, context, and system), we outlined sub-elements that constituted both opportunities and limitations, which included interactions, perceptions, and behavior in the augmented virtuality. The virtual living room was described very positively by all participants. However, there were also some technological limitations in terms of fidelity, HMD comfort, and quality. When developing virtual environments, we found it very important to include very specific elements within the user, contextual and system categories, as well including qualitative methods throughout the entire design process.

This paper reports on the construction of a virtual environment on top of a commercially available authoring platform that simulates an industrial robotic arm in pick-andplace movement scenarios. The user interface constructed follows in functionality the well-known teach pendants but exploits just a normal PC keyboard. However, both forward and inverse kinematics is served allowing the user to command movements in either the joint or the tool coordinate system. Perception pertaining to picking and placing movements and in particular the subtle docking positions was enhanced by adding so-called perceptual aids consisting of auxiliary objects with collision detection capabilities. The application was put to test by a group of practitioner-trainees who reported favourably, using a structured questionnaire, on its merits in enhancing their understanding of the robot's capabilities, its kinematics, as well as the task performance strategy. Thus, confidence is increased regarding the ability of Virtual Reality - based platforms to contribute to successful training regarding programming and manipulation of industrial equipment.

With the future application and deployment of holographic, it becomes essential to study the design elements of holographic scene. This article aims to explore holographic scene design elements and measure their impact on user experience. The integrated method of card sorting and fuzzy comprehensive evaluation can provide direction decision for future scene design. Based on obtaining the design elements, firstly, we used the card sorting method to analyze the attribute classification of each design element; secondly, we used the fuzzy comprehensive evaluation method to evaluate the importance of the design elements. Finally, we obtained the comprehensive weight of future holographic scene design elements through calculation. The results show that "Naturally reasonable function" has the highest impact on the future experience of holographic scenes, followed by "Interactive perception range", "Multi-sensory fusion", and "Intelligent prediction".

A user's sense of immersion in Augmented Reality or Virtual Reality is greatly improved with the inclusion of extra senses beyond sight and sound. Tactile interaction is an integral part of our interaction with the world around us, and both haptic (the sense of touch) and thermal senses play a role in this perception. While extensive research has been done into specific effects of both thermal and haptic senses, research into the field of realistic simulations combining the two has so far been limited by the freedom of the user to move about and interact unrestricted with the environment. With recent advances in Augmented Reality such as the Microsoft Hololens, this is no longer a limitation. This paper presents the design and testing of a device capable of simulating thermal and haptic interactions, in the form of glove and connected electronics. The device is characterised, the control methods outlined, and the capabilities and limitations of the prototype are presented.

Immersive virtual reality (VR) systems are becoming widely used for education with three-dimensional (3D) information. Specifically, three-dimensional spaces to create virtual environments can help increase students' learning interest and ability with spatial interaction. Also, with the use of multimodal interaction, VR systems can provide highly effective ways to solve problems through natural experiences. Additionally, immersive environments can bring together people in remote locations, which has been increasingly applied in education applications with the use of technology to simulate real situations. However, effective interaction methods that improve the learning ability of people participating in educational activities in 3D immersive environments are yet to be well defined. In this study, we investigated the effect of the interaction feedback types on the perception of students participating in VR environments. We conducted the experiment on three types of interaction responses, and our study was designed as a virtual chemistry class. Our experimental study showed that the interaction feedback type of a deformable object had a greater educational effect than other types of visual or audio feedback, and our results are expected to provide guidelines on how to create effective immersive education content and interaction methods.

In this study, we focus on the ability of human symbiotic intelligent systems to recognize discrepancies in perception of the situation, especially visual perception, with humans. Even when they share the same space, the system's perception of the situation and that of the humans sometimes do not match. To truly understand and predict the other's behavior in such a situation, the system must recognize that the other is unaware of a particular fact. Behaviors based on such ability are expected to make a good impression on users and contribute to establishing a desirable relationship with them. However, this expectation is still a hypothesis and has not been verified. In this study, we carry out a subjective evaluation experiment to verify the hypothesis. For the experiment, we created a personified agent that interacts with the user and can recognize discrepancies in visual perception of the situation using virtual reality technology. We also designed an interaction scenario that includes a situation where a discrepancy in perception occurs. Using this agent and scenario, we carry out the experiment to investigate how the agent's behavior in the situation affects the user's subjective impression. Experimental results imply that an agent's ability to recognize discrepancies in the perception of the situation gives the users a positive impression.

While tremendous advances in visual and auditory realism have been made for virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), introducing a plausible sense of physicality into the virtual world remains challenging. Closing the gap between real-world physicality and immersive virtual experience requires a closed interaction loop: applying user-exerted physical forces to the virtual environment and generating haptic sensations back to the users. However, existing VR/AR solutions either completely ignore the force inputs from the users or rely on obtrusive sensing devices that compromise user experience. By identifying users' muscle activation patterns while engaging in VR/AR, we design a learning-based neural interface for natural and intuitive force inputs. Specifically, we show that lightweight electromyography sensors, resting non-invasively on users' forearm skin, inform and establish a robust understanding of their complex hand activities. Fuelled by a neural-networkbased model, our interface can decode finger-wise forces in real-time with 3.3% mean error, and generalize to new users with little calibration. Through an interactive psychophysical study, we show that human perception of virtual objects' physical properties, such as stiffness, can be significantly enhanced by our interface. We further demonstrate that our interface enables ubiquitous control via finger tapping. Ultimately, we envision our findings to push forward research towards more realistic physicality in future VR/AR.

When users use Virtual Reality (VR) in nontraditional postures, such as while reclining or lying in relaxed positions, their views lean upwards and need to be corrected, to make sure they see upright contents and perceive the interactions as if they were standing. Such upright redirection is excepted to cause visual-vestibular-proprioceptive conflict, affecting users' internal perceptions (e.g., body ownership, presence, simulator sickness) and external perceptions (e.g., egocentric space perception) in VR. Different body reclining angles may affect vestibular sensitivity and lead to the dynamic weighting of multi-sensory signals in the sensory integration. In the paper, we investigated the impact of upright redirection on users' perceptions, with users' physical bodies tilted at various angles backward and views upright redirected accordingly. The results showed that upright redirection led to simulator sickness, confused self-awareness, weak upright illusion, and increased space perception deviations to various extents when users are at different reclining positions, and the situations were the worst at the 45 degrees conditions. Based on these results, we designed some illusion-based and sensory-based methods, that were shown effective in reducing the impact of sensory confict through preliminary evaluations.

The limitations of stereo display systems affect depth perception, e.g., due to the vergence-accommodation conflict or diplopia. We performed three studies to understand how stereo display deficiencies impact 3D pointing for targets in front of a screen and close to the user, i.e., in peripersonal space. Our first two experiments compare movements with and without a change in visual depth for virtual respectively physical targets. Results indicate that selecting targets along the depth axis is slower and has less throughput for virtual targets, while physical pointing demonstrates the opposite result. We then propose a new 3D extension for Fitts' law that models the effect of stereo display deficiencies. Next, our third experiment verifies the model and measures more broadly how the change in visual depth between targets affects pointing performance in peripersonal space and confirms significant effects on time and throughput. Finally, we discuss implications for 3D user interface design.

The rapid technological advancements and the widespread adoption of the internet have diminished the role of the physical library as a main information resource. As the Metaverse is evolving, a revolutionary change is anticipated in how social relationships are perceived, within an educational context. It is therefore necessary for libraries to upgrade the services they provide to keep in line with the technological trends and be a part of this virtual revolution. It is believed that the design and development of a Virtual Reality (VR) library can be the community and knowledge hub the society needs. In this paper, the process of creating a partially digital replica of the Limassol Municipal University Library, a landmark for the city of Limassol, is examined by using photogrammetry and 3D modelling. A 3D platform was developed, where users have the perception that they are experiencing the actual library. To that end, a perceptual study was conducted, to understand the current usage of physical libraries, examine the users' experience in VR, and identify the requirements and expectations in the development of a virtual library counterpart. Following the suggestions and observations from the perceptual study, five key scenarios were implemented that demonstrate the potential use of a virtual library. This work incorporates the fundamental VR attributes, such as immersiveness, realism, user interactivity and feedback as well as other features, such as animated NPCs, 3D audio, ray-casting and GUIs, that significantly augment the overall VR library user experience, presence as well as navigation autonomy. The main effort of this project was to produce a VR representation of an existing physical library, integrated with its key services, as a proof-of-concept, with emphasis on easy 24/7 access, functionality, and interactivity. The above attributes differentiate this work from existing studies. A detailed user evaluation study was conducted upon completion of the final VR library implementation, which firmly confirmed all its key attributes and future viability.

Traditional safety training media to transfer safety knowledge specific to the rock-related hazards in underground mines are mainly video or manuals, which are inefficient and bring a poor training experience. In this paper, we designed and developed a serious game based on virtual reality (VR) technology in order to efficiently transfer safety knowledge and enable enhanced interactive safety training. For different training purposes and users, we designed two modes, one for professional scaling training suitable for novice scalers, the other for rock-related hazards perception training suitable for other miners. Our game is built based on game engine-Unity3D and equipped with HTC VIVE to improve immersion. The game pipeline is to have trainees basically understand safety knowledge through guided interaction and then make a self-adaptive practice to fully master it. We evaluated the effectiveness of our game, and the results of the comparative experiment show that our game is more efficient than the instructional video in both training modes. The application of our game is proven to have the potential to change the safety situation of underground mines and evaluate the level of safety awareness and risk aversion of the miners in the future.

Thanks to recent advances on motion capture devices and stereoscopic consumer displays, animated virtual characters can now realistically interact with users in a variety of applications. We investigate in this paper the effect of avatars, stereo vision and display size on task execution in immersive virtual environments. We report results obtained with three experiments in varied configurations that are commonly used in rehabilitation applications. The first experiment analyzes the accuracy of reaching tasks under different system configurations: with and without an avatar, with and without stereo vision, and employing a 2D desktop monitor versus a large multi-tile visualization display. The second experiment analyzes the use of avatars and user-perspective stereo vision on the ability to perceive and subsequently reproduce motions demonstrated by an autonomous virtual character. The third experiment evaluates the overall user experience with a complete immersive user interface for motion modeling by direct demonstration. Our experiments expose and quantify the benefits of using stereo vision and avatars, and show that the use of avatars improve the quality of produced motions and the resemblance of replicated msotions; however, direct interaction in user-perspective leads to tasks executed in less time and to targets more accurately reached. These and additional tradeoffs are important for the effective design of avatar-based training systems.

Development of haptic interfaces to enrich augmented and virtual reality with the sense of touch is the next frontier for technological advancement of these systems. Among available technologies, electrotactile stimulation enables design of high-density interfaces that can provide natural-like sensation of touch in interaction with virtual objects. The present study investigates the human perception of electrotactile sensations on fingertips, focusing on the sensation localization in function of the size and position of reference electrode. Ten healthy subjects participated in the study, with the task to mark the sensations elicited by stimulating the index fingertip using an 8-pad electrode. The test systematically explored several configurations of the active (position) and reference (position and size) electrode pads. The results indicated that there was a spreading of perceived sensations across the fingertip, but that they were mostly localized below the active pad. The position and size of the reference electrode were shown to affect the location of the perceived sensations, which can potentially be exploited as an additional parameter to modulate the feedback. The present study demonstrates that the fingertip is a promising target for the delivery of high-resolution feedback. Z8 0

This perspective article, looking through the lens of neurodiversity, discusses the benefits and challenges of implementing virtual environments and wearable technologies in interior design and related fields. While the relationship between human perception and built environments has long been studied in the environmental design disciplines, the direct impact on occupant performance related to neurodiversity has been underexplored in research, with a shortage of knowledge supporting how it can be applied in design practice concerning the end users. Individuals' perceptual, cognitive, and affective responses to their surroundings vary, as neurodiversity plays a key role in the invisible, human-environment interaction. Thus, measuring, analyzing, and understanding affective, perceptual, and cognitive experiences is a challenging process in which various factors come into play, and no single method or measurement can adequately work for all. Due to such challenges, research has also utilized various biometric measurements and tools for immersive experiments in physical and virtual environments, e.g., eye tracking used in studies on gaze behaviors and immersive virtual reality (IVR) used in studies on the spatial perception of dementia patients. Along with empirical methods, studies have stressed the contribution of phenomenology to looking into the hidden dimension, the 'why factors' of perception, cognition, and affectivity. Concerning the methodological approach, this perspective article shares insights into a novel process model, Participatory Neurodesign (PND) framework, used in wayfinding research and design processes utilizing eye tracking and IVR. Opportunities for neurodesign research and design practice are also discussed, focusing on the health, safety, and wellbeing of end-users.

Haptic perception of curvature depends largely on the kind of touch. An active and dynamic touch is considered to be the most natural way of exploring. In this study, we have designed and evaluated a kinematic platform for curvature perception through active and dynamic touch. This platform can independently orient, elevate, and translate a flat plate; by exploring forward and backward along the flat plate with a finger, users can achieve curvature feeling of extruded objects. The mechanism of platform and the way of touch have maximally respected the cues for curvature perception, especially the slip cue. Psychophysical evaluation demonstrated that the discrimination threshold of curvature for virtual shapes is close to that for real shapes, and the virtual shape is felt equally curved as the real one. The curvature perception of mono-convex surfaces was then expanded to perception of more complex surfaces: large textures, which have a sinusoidal profile. The evaluation has accessed the correspondence between the virtual and real large textures. Z8 0

The paper presents a new approach to examining the connection between human emotions and architectural space, focusing on the aspect of geometry. It examines how emotional reactions to geometrical manipulations within architectural space can be empirically measured and quantified. By using physiological sensors, such as EEG (Electroencephalography), GSR (Galvanic Skin Response), and eye-tracking (ET), we were able to collect data from participants experiencing virtual environments, differentiated by criteria of scale, proportion, protrusion and curvature. Findings suggest that these criteria influence the user's emotional state. The developed methodology, which combines both qualitative and quantitative measurements, shows changes of interest, both 'positive' and 'negative', suspected to indicate different emotional states.

Based on the theory of intelligent perception and deep learning, this paper discusses the interactive design method of virtual reality (VR) platform based on artificial intelligence, and carries out in-depth analysis of its modeling and evaluation process. The research shows that the multi-user collaborative recommendation algorithm can effectively reduce the concurrency of users in the interactive system. At the same time, the deep learning algorithm model can predict the data flow and feature information in the virtual reality scene, and the performance results are obtained through iterative operations. The results show that the initial stability of the system is about 90%, and the fluctuation range is between 80% and 100% as time goes by. Under the premise of maintaining stability of 80% to 100%, small vibration caused by random noise leads to stability fluctuations. The system shows a certain degree of robustness and elasticity in the fluctuation range of 80% to 100%, and can maintain stability in response to external interference, and realize functions such as intelligent roaming and environmental monitoring of the VR platform.

In an augmented reality system, labelling technique is a very useful assistant technique for browsing and understanding unfamiliar objects or environments, through which the superimposed virtual labels of words or pictures on the real scene provide convenient information to the viewers, expand the recognition to area of interests and promote the interaction with real scene. How to design the layout of labels in user's field of view, keep the clarity of virtual information and balance the ratio between virtual information and real scene information is a key problem in the field of view management. This paper presents the empirical results extracted from experiment aiming at the user's visual perception to labelling layout, which reflects the subjective preferences to different factors influencing the labelling result. Statistical analysis of the experiment results shows the intuitive visual judgement accomplished by subjects. The quantitative measurement of clutter indicates the change induced by labels on real scene, therefore contributing the label design on view management in future.

Within the field of human-computer interaction, data gloves play an essential role in establishing a connection between virtual and physical environments for the realization of digital human. To enhance the credibility of human-virtual hand interactions, we aim to develop a system incorporating a data glove-embedded technology. Our proposed system collects a wide range of information (temperature, bending, and pressure of fingers) that arise during natural interactions and afterwards reproduce them within the virtual environment. Furthermore, we implement a novel traversal polling technique to facilitate the streamlined aggregation of multi-channel sensors. This mitigates the hardware complexity of the embedded system. The experimental results indicate that the data glove demonstrates a high degree of precision in acquiring real-time hand interaction information, as well as effectively displaying hand posture in real-time using Unity3D. The data glove's lightweight and compact design facilitates its versatile utilization in virtual reality interactions. The gloves proposed in this paper integrate 16 sensors capable of detecting temperature, finger pressure, and bending data of the hand. Additionally, we have designed a small circuit board. The incorporation of a novel traversal polling method for the streamlined collection of multi-channel sensor readings is innovative. The experimental results indicate that the data glove demonstrates a high degree of precision in acquiring real-time hand interaction information, as well as effectively displaying hand posture in real-time using Unity3D. image

The world is facing the problem of anthropogenic climate change and air pollution. Despite many years of development, already established methods of influencing behaviour remain ineffective. The effect of such interventions is very often a declaration of behaviour change that is not followed by actual action. Moreover, despite intensive information campaigns, many people still do not have adequate knowledge on the subject, are not aware of the problem or, worse, deny its existence. Previous attempts to introduce real change were based on providing information, persuasion or visualisation. We propose the use of multi-sensory virtual reality to investigate the problem more thoroughly and then design appropriate solutions. In this paper, we introduce a new immersive virtual environment that combines free exploration with a high level of experimental control, physiological and behavioural measures. It was created on the basis of transdisciplinary scientific cooperation, participatory design and research. We used the unique features of virtual environments to reverse and expand the idea of pollution pods by Pinsky. Instead of closing participants in small domes filled with chemical substances imitating pollution, we made it possible for them to freely explore an open environment - admiring the panorama of a small town from the observation deck located on a nearby hill. Virtual reality technology enables the manipulation of representations of air pollution, the sensory modalities with which they are transmitted (visual, auditory, tactile and smell stimuli) and their intensity. Participants' reactions from the initial tests of the application showed that it is a promising solution. We present the possibilities of applying the new solution in psychological research and its further design and development opportunities in collaboration with communities and other stakeholders in the spirit of citizen science.

Implementing an interactive mixed reality simulation system is an economical and risk-free method for skill training. However, research to enhance the accuracy of mixed reality simulation has always been a challenge. One of the key indicators of a simulation's accuracy is the user's depth perception. Adding depth cues to the simulation scene can effectively increase the accuracy of depth perception. Therefore, in this study, we designed five depth cues to find the one most beneficial for depth perception: (1) depth bar, (2) location ball, (3) fixed window, (4) 3D wireframe, and (5) movable silhouettes. These depth cues were tested using an experimental system with two sets of experimental settings. The first experiment compared the five depth cues at five different viewing distances and showed that the movable silhouettes benefited depth perception accuracy the most. The second experiment compared depth perception accuracies among three different horizontal tilt settings, showing that depth perception accuracy is dependent on the horizontal tilt. Furthermore, different depth perception accuracies were obtained with and without depth cues, proving that the effects from the horizontal tilts were independent of depth cues. The results of these studies provide references for designing interactive mixed reality simulation systems. Z8 0

TheThe use of Head Mounted Displays (HMD) to view Virtual Reality (VR) environments has increased in the recent years with the introduction of high-quality economic devices that offer a quality user experience. Within the design and construction industries, the use of HMD-VR is growing and has proven to be a powerful visualization tool for helping clients understand space. This research is looking at the potential introduction of HMD-VR into the construction education classroom in the context of wood frame construction assemblies. A study was conducted using commodity HMD-VR headsets powered by mobile devices. A pre and post survey was conducted by allowing the students to navigate around a virtual environment using the device, document perceptions pertaining to VR in the classroom and the students ability to understand qualities of the models construction when in the simulated environment. This paper discusses the development of the HMD-VR environment, the user experience, and the results of the pre/post surveys. The results conclude that the students had an overall favourable view of implementing the technology into the construction curriculum. Additional survey analysis is included in the paper.

Background Physical therapy education benefits from innovative and authentic learning opportunities. However, factors that influence the acceptance of educational technology must be assessed prior to curricular adoption. The purpose of this study was to assess the perceived ease of use and perceived usefulness of a virtual reality (VR) learning experience developed to promote the clinical decision-making of student physical therapists. Methods A VR learning experience was developed, and an established two-stage usability test assessed player experience as well as the user's perception of both ease of use and usefulness. Two experts evaluated the VR learning experience and provided feedback. Six student physical therapists and five faculty members completed the VR experience, responded to two questionnaires, and participated in a semi-structured interview to further assess ease of use and utility. Results High levels of perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, and positive player experiences were reported by both faculty and student users. Faculty users perceived a significantly greater amount of educational and clinical utility from the VR simulation than did student users. Semi-structured interviews revealed themes related to ease of use, benefits, modeling of professional behaviors, and realism. Conclusion Quantitative data supported faculty and student users' perceptions of ease of use, utility towards learning, practical application, and several constructs related to user experience. Qualitative data provided recommendations to modify design features of the VR experience. This study provides a template to design, produce, and assess the usability of an immersive VR learning experience that may be replicated by other health professions educators where current evidence is limited.

This paper describes the design and current state of development of a multimodal user interface enabling exploration of remote environments by means of a teleoperated robot. Human-robot interaction consists of visual and tactile feedback to the user and gesture-based teleoperation of the robot. The user interface includes surface reconstruction of the remote environment integrating data sampled by tactile and proximity sensors, cutaneous perception of distance information through the vibrotactile actuators integrated in a virtual reality glove (the CyberTouch, from Immersion Corp., Inc.), and an optional streaming of video information for bandwidth-rich settings. Preliminary results show that the VR glove enables the operator to drive the exploration of the remote environment in a natural fashion and to react promptly to the sensed information.

Augmented reality (AR) technology, with its unique immersive interactive experience of virtual reality integration, can show children abstract concepts and theories in an intuitive way. In this paper, we improve the high-precision position and low delay interaction of AR recognition area through edge calculation, so as to enhance the immersion of children's chord knowledge learning. Meanwhile, multisource fusion perception of audio and touch is used, and the AI algorithm model is used to monitor physical events (cloud AI training and edge execution) and effectively realize intelligent services such as chord combination, melody perception, and control. Chord knowledge in music theory is presented to children through multichannels (kinesthetic, visual, auditory, etc.) situationally, to improve children's learning efficiency and experience. We invited 12 children to participate in user experiments to test usability of ChordAR. The test results showed that children can master the method of playing the game through simple learning, ultimately correctly imitating C, G, and E chords, and experience full immersion in the game. Finally, we discuss the positive effects of ChordAR on children's learning and creativity and make suggestions for future AR games. Z8 0

Simulating real-world experiences in a safe environment has made virtual human medical simulations a common use case for research and interpersonal communication training. Despite the benefits virtual human medical simulations provide, previous work suggests that users struggle to notice when virtual humans make potentially life-threatening verbal communication mistakes inside virtual human medical simulations. In this work, we performed a 2x2 mixed design user study that had learners (n = 80) attempt to identify verbal communication mistakes made by a virtual human acting as a nurse in a virtual desktop environment. A virtual desktop environment was used instead of a head-mounted virtual reality environment due to Covid-19 limitations. The virtual desktop environment experience allowed us to explore how frequently learners identify verbal communication mistakes in virtual human medical simulations and how perceptions of credibility, reliability, and trustworthiness in the virtual human affect learner error recognition rates. We found that learners struggle to identify infrequent virtual human verbal communication mistakes. Additionally, learners with lower initial trustworthiness ratings are more likely to overlook potentially life-threatening mistakes, and virtual human mistakes temporarily lower learner credibility, reliability, and trustworthiness ratings of virtual humans. From these findings, we provide insights on improving virtual human medical simulation design. Developers can use these insights to design virtual simulations for error identification training using virtual humans.

Technology has always been creating effective ways to support human decisions. Immersive virtual reality (IVR) has emerged to engage users in a simulated world, and this has gained the interest of a wide variety of users in the heritage industry. A historical case study built in the early 19(th) century is considered for an adaptive reuse exhibition. The palace is located in Cairo, Egypt, and named after Prince Omar Tosson. The current palace state incorporates a smashed top-lit zone, which is being studied and analyzed for daylighting adequacy. Three simulated distinct optimum skylight configurations are suggested for the redesign where the selection should not be based solely on simulation data, but should consider real-user preferences. Most daylight design criteria are previously based on simulation data that do not necessarily indicate the users' preferences. But utilizing user interactive tools such as IVR to test daylight redesign options, a whole new dimension is provided. In this study, the VR users' survey data is statistically analyzed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS), where results revealed that the assessment attributes succeeded in reflecting the users' preferences; which, motivated designers to consider potential users' daylight preferences in reused spaces. The paper highlights the most significant emotional attributes that provide cost-effective and reliable information concerned with the performance of daylight in IVR before design implementation. This study compares and analyzes the effect of three skylight designs (Cases A, B & C) on the users' perception before design implementation using (IVR) post-survey. Forty-eight participants have contributed to the study, providing their feedback on six attributes namely: Pleasant, Contrasting, Brightness, Uniform Distribution, Visual Comfort, and Satisfaction. Those attributes are evaluated for the three cases in space using five scale rating values to reveal that the "Pleasant" attribute is most reliable in the study to reflect the users' preferences for design Case B.

A key challenge in augmented reality is the precise linking of virtual information with physical places or objects to create a spatial relationship. The visual presentation of these links can have many forms like direct overlays or connection lines. In spite of its importance, this topic has never been systematically addressed by existing approaches. As a first step in this direction, we suggest a taxonomy for such visualizations to facilitate their detailed analysis in terms of graphical properties. It consists of the three artifact types spatial anchor, information object and information connection as well as the three dimensions reference system, visual connection and context. Additionally we surveyed literature to collect the knowledge on how these dimensions and their combinations affect user performances. To explain the application of our taxonomy, we classified user interfaces from literature. We also conducted an empirical experiment regarding the effects on task performance of different classes from our dimension visual connection, i.e. the type of visual connection that is presented to the user. The outcomes give important guidance for augmented reality interface design in a part, which has not been researched before. The results show that the preferred method for visualizing information linking is using a close spatial proximity, followed by a continuous visual connection, a color coded symbolical connection and a shape coded symbolical connection.

Bare hand interaction in augmented or virtual reality (AR/VR) systems, while intuitive, often results in errors and frustration. However, existing methods, such as a static icon or a dynamic tutorial, can only inform simple and coarse hand gestures and lack corrective feedback. This paper explores various visualizations for enhancing precise hand interaction in VR. Through a comprehensive two-part formative study with 11 participants, we identified four types of essential information for visual guidance and designed different visualizations that manifest these information types. We further distilled four visual designs and conducted a controlled lab study with 15 participants to assess their effectiveness for various single- and double-handed gestures. Our results demonstrate that visual guidance significantly improved users' gesture performance, reducing time and workload while increasing confidence. Moreover, we found that the visualization did not disrupt most users' immersive VR experience or their perceptions of hand tracking and gesture recognition reliability.

The tactful networking paradigm is expected to play a crucial role in the next generation networks. Accordingly, adaptive human-aware environments, sensitive to the daily human behavior and individual traits have to be provided, in order to offer a fully immersive and customized experience to users. On the basis of data collected by actual cognitive experiments, this paper proposes a learning framework to discover the multi-sensory human perceptual experience. The paper applies the mixture density network to identify the perception model considering different senses, and then the multi-sensory integration is performed, accordingly to the actual neuro-cognitive model. Furthermore, a supervised learning module has been used to cluster the users on the basis of the human perception identification strategy previously designed, assuming a multimodal structure for the cognitive brain activity. Finally, a practical contextualization is presented, in relation to the haptics virtual reality services. What emerges from the results is the effectiveness of the tactful approach, i.e., brain-aware, involving the proposed framework, which is validated in comparison to the more conventional brain-agnostic scheme. In fact, the system performance, expressed in terms of reliability in guaranteeing the service exploitation before a target deadline based on the integrated perception, reaches remarkable improvements applying the brain-aware strategy, which exploits the human perception knowledge.

This paper presents a Virtual Reality (VR) exergame, Virtual Fitness Trail (VFT), designed to encourage the elderly to regularly exercise in an engaging and safe way staying at home. VFT provides a highly immersive physical activity experiences in first-person perspective and it has been developed to run on Oculus Quest head mounted display. The exergame proposes four activities involving the main muscles of the legs and arms, as well as stabilizing balance and reflexes: monkey bar, side raises, basketball shot and slalom between beams. Each activity has four difficulty level and has been designed to minimize the perception of self-motion so as to reduce the cybersickness arise. The user's performances are saved in j son file and it can be shared, via email, with the caregiver at the end of the exergame session. The application is a prototype and needs to be tested and validated before proposing it for autonomous physical activity at home.

This paper investigates the accuracy of Augmented Reality (AR) technologies, particularly commercially available optical see-through displays, in depicting virtual content inside the human body for surgical planning. Their inherent limitations result in inaccuracies in perceived object positioning. We examine how occlusion, specifically with opaque surfaces, affects perceived depth of virtual objects at arm's length working distances. A custom apparatus with a half-silvered mirror was developed, providing accurate depth cues excluding occlusion, differing from commercial displays. We carried out a study, contrasting our apparatus with a HoloLens 2, involving a depth estimation task under varied surface complexities and illuminations. In addition, we explored the effects of creating a virtual "hole" in the surface. Subjects' depth estimation accuracy and confidence were a ssessed. Results showed more depth estimation variation with HoloLens and significant depth error beneath complex occluding surfaces. However, creating a virtual hole significantly reduced depth errors and increased subjects' confidence, irrespective of accuracy enhancement. These findings have important implications for the design and use of mixed-reality technologies in surgical applications, and industrial applications such as using virtual content to guide maintenance or repair of components hidden beneath the opaque outer surface of equipment. A free copy of this paper and all supplemental materials are available at https://bit.ly/3YbkwjU.

Robotic assessment devices aimed at patients with motor disorders offer a comprehensive insight into motor coordination. In this paper, we designed and constructed a novel upper-limb exoskeleton robot that can be helpful in proprioception assessments and rehabilitation of impairments after stroke. The Exoskeleton consists of two 2-DOF arms which are fully adjustable to accommodate users of different sizes. The robot has hinge joints aligned with the user's shoulder and elbow, operates in a horizontal plane, and provide independent assessment of elbow and shoulder joints. By recruiting a virtual reality environment along with the exoskeleton, we have provided a platform that conveniently enables assessments of upper extremity, without the encumbrances of existing methods. As a preliminary step of validation, the reaching experiments were run as a qualitative test to find out user's perception of the device. Results underline the ability of the user to perform a variety of motor tasks under this protocol.

This article shows an overview of an immersive VR application to explore, to analyze and to mark large-scale photogrammetric 3D models. The objective is to interrogate the effectiveness of the proposed navigation process and annotation tools for spatial understanding. Due to the amount of interactions, different kinds of menus were necessary: desktop coordination menu, radial menu attached to the controller and 3D spatial menu for creating markers. Besides the menus, the navigation tasks through different perception space scales required a great number of interactions metaphors, patterns and techniques displaying the complexity of the user experience in Virtual Reality for understanding and analyzing urban digital twins. Those interactions allowed by the user interface were then analysed and classifyed according to a theoretical background and were experimented in preliminary tests with end users. Although designed for particular needs of the army, the tools and interactions can be adapted for city models explorations and urban planning. For future steps of the research, a usability study is going to be performed to test the performance of the interface and to have more end users feedback.

Building a virtual laboratory for teaching and learning is a highly complex process, incorporating diverse areas such as interaction design, visualisation, and pedagogy. This article focuses on the production and implementation issues that were found in the comparison of two different virtual laboratory projects, and discuss which design considerations can be drawn from these observations. Two web-based virtual laboratories - the Gas Laboratory and the Virtual Colour Laboratory - were developed independently of each other within two different content areas. The laboratories share considerable overlaps in goals and production circumstances. Through a comparison of production and outcome, similar problems related to design, development and implementation were observed. The research uses a mixed method approach combining quantitative pre- and post-tests for assessments, qualitative surveys, and qualitative, ethnographic observations and interviews. By comparing the background material, five design challenges for developing virtual laboratories are identified: 1) how to balance ambitions with available resources; 2) how to balance intended levels of user interaction with exploratory freedom; 3) how to find appropriate levels of realism depending on target group; 4) how to choose between mimicking real world appearance and enhanced features; and 5) how to find the best learning situation for the virtual laboratory. To meet these challenges, the following design considerations are proposed: Guide the design work with a clear understanding of purpose and context; select appropriate technology to ensure efficient design and media usage; select level of realism considering purpose and end users; and provide learning guides before and after the virtual lab session.

This study investigated remote multidisciplinary sketching ideation across three systems: virtual reality (VR), tablet drawing, and uploading images of paper drawings. Though cumbersome, expressiveness and line control with drawing on paper was still noted to be important even in remote sketching, particularly by people experienced with this method. The tablet method was user-friendly, fostering effective collaborative understanding, especially in object-based ideation. Existing skills played a significant role in shaping collaborative perceptions. Despite challenges, VR exhibited promise in fostering creative expression and visualization in collaborative design workflows. Notably, it proved beneficial in early problem-solving stages where spatial and sensory considerations influenced structural decisions-potentially useful after general brainstorming and 2D sketching has established themes and objects. This research contributes to further understanding of VR's evolving role in design thinking, its synergy with other drawing methods in remote sketching collaboration, and the evolving landscape of diverse user needs in ideation processes.

Purpose: This study aims to measure how information quality, system quality, security, usefulness, and ease of use of Augmented Reality (VR) and Virtual Reality (AR) influence user satisfaction, motivating intelligent travel technology developers to improve VR/AR quality to meet customer requirements. Research design, data and methodology: This study investigates users interested in travelling in Ho Chi Minh City and Nha Trang City, Vietnam. The research model was implemented using an online questionnaire and face-to-face from 405 valid samples. To evaluate the scale's reliability, the study used the software SPSS 20. Test research hypotheses and evaluate measurement and structural models. This research uses AMOS 20 software. The proposed model is firmly grounded in the Information System Success model (ISS) and the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), providing a solid theoretical foundation for our research. Results: Results show that consumer perceptions of information quality, system quality, security, usefulness, and ease of use have a positive impact on the perceived quality of VR/AR, thereby influencing tourists' travel intention. Conclusions: The results of this research enrich the theoretical understanding of consumer behaviour toward intelligent technology products in tourism, providing management implications for manufacturers to improve the quality of tourism products and satisfy user requirements in experience before considering choosing a destination.

As virtual reality (VR) technology and systems become more commercially available and accessible, more and more psychologists are starting to integrate VR as part of their methods. This approach offers major advantages in experimental control, reproducibility, and ecological validity, but also has limitations and hidden pitfalls which may distract the novice user. This study aimed to guide the psychologist into the novel world of VR, reviewing available instrumentation and mapping the landscape of possible systems. We use examples of state-of-the-art research to describe challenges which research is now solving, including embodiment, uncanny valley, simulation sickness, presence, ethics, and experimental design. Finally, we propose that the biggest challenge for the field would be to build a fully interactive virtual human who can pass a VR Turing test - and that this could only be achieved if psychologists, VR technologists, and AI researchers work together.

Redirected walling (RDW) allows virtual reality (VR) users to walk infinitely while staying inside a finite physical space through subtle shifts (gains) of the scene to redirect them back inside the volume. All prior approaches measure the feasibility of RDW techniques based on if the user perceives the manipulation, leading to rather small applicable gains. However, we treat RDW as an interaction technique and therefore use visually perceivable gains instead of using the perception of manipulation. We revisited prior experiments with focus on applied gains and additionally tested higher gains on the basis of applicability in a user study. We found that users accept curvature gains up to 20' /m, which reduces the necessary physical volume down to approximately 6x6m for virtually walking infinitely straight ahead. Our findings strife to rethink the usage of redirection from being unperceived to being applicable and natural.

Technologies change rapidly our perception of reality, moving from augmented to virtual to magical. While e-textiles are a key component in exergame or space suits, the transformative potential of the internal side of garments to create embodied experiences still remains largely unexplored. This paper is the result from an art-science collaborative project that combines recent neuroscience findings, body-centered design principles and 2D vibrotactile array-based fabrics to alter one's body perception. We describe an iterative design process intertwined with two user studies on the effects on body-perceptions and emotional responses of various vibration patterns within textile that were designed as spatial haptic metaphors. Our results show potential in considering materials (e.g., rocks) as sensations to design for body perceptions (e.g., being heavy, strong) and emotional responses. We discuss these results in terms of sensory effects on body perception and synergetic impact to research on embodiment in virtual environments, human-computer interaction, and e-textile design. The work brings a new perspective to the sensorial design of embodied experiences which is based on "material perception" and haptic metaphors, and highlights potential opportunities opened by haptic clothing to change body-perception.

This paper investigates the art design of user interaction experience in mobile systems through the methods of contextual perception and machine learning. The theoretical foundations for the design of intangible cultural heritage interactive display resources include digital display theory, intangible cultural heritage education theory, embodied cognition theory, and gamification design theory. Based on the modelling and analysis of the theoretical foundations, the design principles are derived, including the heritage education principle, the somatic interaction design principle, and the content design principle. In this paper, we use ontologies to construct user knowledge models, fuse multi-situational similarity metrics, screen out candidate neighbour sets through preliminary screening, then combine the user's activity to construct time-based weight tensor scores, use tensor decomposition to obtain recommendation evaluation values, and finally use the recommendation evaluation values to make artistic recommendations. The experimental results show that the algorithm can still obtain a good recommendation implementation in the case of extremely sparse data. The analysis of the fit between augmented reality and folk art appreciation class, as well as the reference to relevant application cases, make design and practice of augmented reality application in folk art appreciation class, try to solve the common problems in folk art appreciation class, analyse the feedback effect and make a summary and outlook. Z8 0

In this study, we compared controller and hand-tracking interaction conditions for both browsing and object manipulation tasks to explore the relationship between the interaction method and user experience in a virtual environment (VE), as measured by their sense of agency (SoA), body ownership (BO), interaction fidelity (IF), immersion, usability, and workload. In the first of two experiments, a browsing task was investigated, with the participants in the controller condition experiencing greater SoA, IF, immersion, and usability than those in the hand-tracking condition, while the overall workload was higher for the hand-tracking condition. In experiment 2, we tested an object manipulation task and found a significant difference between the controller and hand-tracking conditions. Participants in the hand-tracking condition experienced higher BO, IF, immersion, and usability, though no meaningful difference was found for SoA and overall workload between the two conditions. Overall, this research confirmed the importance of the association between the interaction method and user experience in a VE.

We propose integrating an array of skin stretch modules with an head-mounted display (HMD) to provide two-dimensional skin stretch feedback on the user's face. Skin stretch has been found effective to induce the perception of force (e.g. weight or inertia) and to enable directional haptic cues. However, its potential as an HMD output for virtual reality (VR) remains to be exploited. Our explorative study firstly investigated the design of shear tactors. Based on our results, Masque has been implemented as an HMD prototype actuating six shear tactors positioned on the HMD's face interface. A comfort study was conducted to ensure that skin stretches generated by Masque are acceptable to all participants. The following two perception-based studies examined the minimum changes in skin stretch distance and stretch angles that are detectable by participants. The results help us to design haptic profiles as well as our prototype applications. Finally, the user evaluation indicates that participants welcomed Masque and regarded skin stretch feedback as a worthwhile addition to HMD output.

Mid-air interaction achieved through handtracking or controller in Virtual Reality (VR) is performed without an explicit spatial reference. One solution for creating such a reference is elastic feedback, which we realized via tension springs attached to a tracked VRcontroller. Thereby, directional force is exerted and perceived by the user. A study was conducted to investigate the effects of elastic feedback on users in virtual travel tasks. Therefore, the elastic mode of the input device was compared to an isotonic mode, without any perceivable force. Also, two virtual travelling methods, a driving mode and a flight mode, were investigated in the study. The main goal of the study was to analyze, how elastic feedback influences user experience and presence perception. Statistical analysis with ANOVA of data from 24 subjects revealed significant main effects for the elastic mode on both, the User Experience Questionnaire (UEQ) and the Igroup Presence Questionnaire (IPQ). In addition, the subjects missed fewer target objects on average during the travel task. However, analysis of task completion times indicated no relevant differences. Although not all individual scales of UEQ and IPQ showed significant outcomes, the result indicates that immersive travel interfaces could benefit from the use of elastic feedback.

In order to explore the commercial building design method that meets the needs of contemporary consumer behavior, the author proposes a method of applying virtual reality, behavior simulation, and other technologies to commercial building design. First, through a questionnaire survey of commercial buildings in a city, the influencing factors of consumption behavior are explained with the help of SPSS correlation analysis. Then, applying virtual reality technology on this basis, three-dimensional presentation of the commercial building design scheme, taking the design of commercial space signage system as an example, the preset low-brightness color system, and the color and shape are single, the logo set A and the logo set B using high-brightness color system and changeable form are presented, expand 3D dynamic visual and behavioral simulations. At last, relying on ResNet image recognition technology, it analyzes the user's visual experience and usage effect. Experimental results show: There is a significant correlation between plane layout, spatial identification, familiarity of indoor space, and frequency of use, and visual perception is the main driving factor for choosing commercial buildings; using the comparative analysis of commercial logos, it is found that the average value of the confidence of set B is less than that of set A; in terms of significance, the average time of identifying all categories of logo set A is 0.68 s, and the average identification time of all categories of identification set B is 0.46 s; in terms of discrimination, it takes 0.28 s to correct the misrecognition of all categories of identification set A and 0.11 s to correct the misrecognition of all categories of identification set B, indicating that the design of the identification system uses bright colors and changeable forms, which are easier to use. The results indicate that the elevation, slope, hydrology, transportation conditions, economic indexes and cultural factors are important factors affecting the spatial distribution of traditional villages in a city. The analysis shows that the distribution of traditional villages is affected by natural conditions, social economic conditions, cultural factors and other factors, and the optimal layout of traditional villages can be strengthened from these aspects.

Virtual training systems are attracting paramount attention from the manufacturing industries due to their potential advantages over the conventional training practices. Significant cost savings can be realized due to the shorter times for the development of different training-scenarios as well as reuse of existing designed engineering (math) models. This paper presents a newly developed virtual environment (VE) for training of procedure tasks i.e. object assembly. Unlike existing VE systems, the presented idea tries to imitate real physical training scenarios by providing comprehensive user interaction, constrained within the physical limitations of the real world. These physical constrains are imposed by the haptics devices in the virtual environment. As a result, in contrast to the existing VE systems that are capable of providing knowledge generally about assembly sequences only, the proposed system helps in cognitive learning and procedural skill development due to its high physically interactive nature. In addition a novel evaluation framework has also been proposed to evaluate system efficacy through a large scale of user-testing, which is often been neglected by design experts in the field of VEs. Results confirm the practical significance of evaluating a VE design by involving sample of real and representative users through the effective discovery of critical usability problems and system deficiencies. Results also indicate benefits of collecting multimodal information for accurate and comprehensive assessment of system efficacy. Evaluation results and improvement of existing design are also presented.

The use of 3-D stereoscopic visualization may provide a user with higher comprehension of remote environments in teleoperation when compared with 2-D viewing, in particular, a higher perception of environment depth characteristics, spatial localization, remote ambient layout, faster system learning, and decision performance. Works in the paper have demonstrated how stereo vision contributes to the improvement of the perception of some depth cues, often for abstract tasks, while it is hard to find works addressing stereoscopic visualization in mobile robot teleguide applications. This paper intends to contribute to this aspect by investigating the stereoscopic robot teleguide under different conditions, including typical navigation scenarios and the use of synthetic and real images. This paper also investigates how user performance may vary when employing different display technologies. Results from a set of test trials run on seven virtual reality systems, from laptop to large panorama and from head-mounted display to Cave automatic virtual environment (CAVE), emphasized few aspects that represent a base for further investigations as well as a guide when designing specific systems for telepresence.

To design architectural spaces that not only respond to the basic needs of users, but also seek their emotional well-being, it is necessary for the architecture students to have a special sensitivity and be aware of the different sensations that their designs should and can evoke. To achieve this competence without exploring real spaces, Immersive Virtual Reality technology offers an important contribution to the field of architecture. The purpose of this research is to determine if the sensations perceived in virtual architectural spaces by students are similar to the real ones and to determine the characteristics of this technology that allow a better perception of sensations. Six architectural modules were designed to be walked through and experienced at real scale using a Head Mounted Display by 22 students of the first and fifth year of studies of Architecture career in Peru. An ad-hoc questionnaire allowed to know the perceived sensations and the benefits of the tool. The results obtained showed that the perception of sensations of the fifth-year students is a little closer to those expressed by a group of seven experts compared to that of the first-year students. The students consider the characteristics of accessibility, real scale of the space and the possibility of going through and looking at the space in all directions are those that have given more realism to the experience and therefore better perception of the space, while the characteristics of natural light and shadows, construction materials and external environment have been less valued in the realism of the experience. It is concluded that the sensory experimentation in architectural spaces modelled realistically in virtual environments allows the perception of sensations very similar to those that the architect seeks to convey initially. Z8 0

The article explores the link between neuroscience and the design fields by discussing works on predictive brain, conscious mind, perception, and peripersonal space to increase bodily self-consciousness in the virtual world. Unlike the physical reality, the virtual world often lacks the intricate bodily feedback necessary for selfconsciousness, thus resulting in less complete virtual representations. By incorporating findings from neuroscience and the virtual world, this research suggests a theoretical approach to enhance bodily self-consciousness in different virtual worlds, particularly augmented or diminished mixed realities and holistic virtual reality. This is achieved through synchronous multisensory stimulation (visuo-tactile), interoceptive feedback, and peripersonal space expansion (visuo-tactile and audio-tactile). As a narrative review, the article not only suggests a theoretical method but also highlights the potential for future practical experiments to apply these insights. Z8 0

A study was conducted to investigate the accuracy of perceptions of a car load space in a cave automatic virtual environment (CAVE). A total of 46 participants rated load space width, height, depth, usability and overall capacity after viewing either a virtual Range Rover Evoque in the CAVE or the real car. Participants were also asked to estimate how many 100 mm(3) blocks could fit in the load space in width, depth or height. The only significant difference was in usability, which was rated higher in the CAVE. There was no systematic over-or under-estimation of distances in the virtual environment. The results suggest that virtual environments can be used for car load space design, particularly for estimates of size, but further work is required to be confident that subjective ratings of virtual properties are equivalent to those of real vehicles.

Inefficiency in real-time visualization and user interaction in traditional accident causation models (ACMs) necessitates the development of a dynamic ACM that can foster real-time hazard identification, accident prevention and interactive safety training. A virtual reality-based accident causation model (VR-ACM) may serve such a purpose. In this study, we performed a comprehensive literature review on different ACMs and safety training practices. The limitations of the existing models and practices are identified. A VR-ACM model is proposed comprising three modules: VR-based modelling and simulation, accident causation and safety training. Several research issues for VR-ACM are highlighted. An experimental study with 22 crane operators is presented, showing the applicability of the proposed model. The proposed VR-ACM serves as a medium for analysis of potential underlying causes of accidents, the three-dimensional perspective of visual analysis, real-time user interactions and real-time judgement and decision-making.

Exploring the synergy between visual and acoustic cues in virtual reality (VR) is crucial for elevating user engagement and perceived (social) presence. We present a study exploring the necessity and design impact of background sound source visualizations to guide. the design of future soundscapes. To this end. we immersed n 27 participants using a head-mounted display (HMD) within a virtual seminar room with six virtual peers and a virtual female professor. Participants engaged in a dual-task paradigm involving simultaneously listening to the professor and performing a secondary vibrotactile task, followed by recalling the heard speech content. We compared three types of background sound source visualizations in a within-subject design: no visualization, static visualization, and animated visualization. Participants' subjective ratings indicate the importance of animated background sound source visualization for an optimal coherent audiovisual representation, particularly when embedding peer-emitted sounds. However, despite this subjective preference, audiovisual coherence did not affect participants' performance in the dual-task paradigm measuring their listening effort.

Screen-based pedestrian navigation assistance can be distracting or inaccessible to users. Shape-changing haptic interfaces can overcome these concerns. The S-BAN is a new handheld haptic interface that utilizes a parallel kinematic structure to deliver 2-DOF spatial information over a continuous workspace, with a form factor suited to integration with other travel aids. The ability to pivot, extend and retract its body opens possibilities and questions around spatial data representation. We present a static study to understand user perception of absolute pose and relative motion for two spatial mappings, showing the highest sensitivity to relative motions in the cardinal directions. We then present an embodied navigation experiment in virtual reality (VR). User motion efficiency when guided by the S-BAN was statistically equivalent to using a visionbased tool (a smartphone proxy). Although haptic trials were slower than visual trials, participants' heads were more elevated with the S-BAN, allowing greater visual focus on the environment. Z8 0

Accurate distance estimation is essential for effective user interaction with objects appearing in the virtual space. Research has shown that the distance estimation in the virtual space is not as accurate as that in the real world. The inaccuracy phenomenon is almost exclusively documented for estimating objects appearing straight ahead of the eye. A collection of the accuracy data for targets located in different angles of view in the visual field may be useful in aiding the design of user-virtual object interaction. This study collected the object to object distance estimation accuracy for targets displayed stereoscopically. There are five horizontal and two vertical viewing angles and three depths, resulting in a total of 30 locations in the virtual space. The distance estimation for any of the 30 object pairs were performed with or without the aid of spatial cues. Significant factors influencing the accuracy and time of distance estimation were identified. Implications of the finding were discussed with respect to the stereoscopic display environment.

Although immersive virtual reality is attractive to users, we know relatively little about whether higher immersion levels increase or decrease spatial learning outcomes. In addition, questions remain about how different approaches to travel within a virtual environment affect spatial learning. In this paper, we investigated the role of immersion (desktop computer versus HTC Vive) and teleportation in spatial learning. Results showed few differences between conditions, favoring, if anything, the desktop environment. There seems to be no advantage of using continuous travel over teleportation, or using the Vive with teleportation compared to a desktop computer. Discussing the results, we look critically at the experimental design, identify potentially confounding variables, and suggest avenues for future research.

Social touch is essential for our social interactions, communication, and well-being. It has been shown to reduce anxiety and loneliness; and is a key channel to transmit emotions for which words are not sufficient, such as love, sympathy, reassurance. However, direct physical contact is not always possible due to being remotely located, interacting in a virtual environment, or as a result of a health issue. Mediated social touch enables physical interactions, despite the distance, by transmitting the haptic cues that constitute social touch through devices. As this technology is fairly new, the users' needs and their expectations on a device design and its features are unclear, as well as who would use this technology, and in which conditions. To better understand these aspects of mediated interaction, we conducted an online survey on 258 respondents located in the USA. Results give insights on the type of interactions and device features that the US population would like to use. Z8 0

In this paper, we designed a registration framework that can be used to develop augmented reality environments, where all the real (including the users) and virtual elements are co-localized and registered in a common reference frame. The software is provided together with this paper, to contribute to the research community. The developed framework allows us to perform a quantitative assessment of interaction and egocentric perception in Augmented Reality (AR) environments. We assess perception and interaction in the peripersonal space through a 3D blind reaching task in a simple scenario and an interaction task in a kitchen scenario using both video (VST) and optical see-through (OST) head-worn technologies. Moreover, we carry out the same 3D blind reaching task in real condition (without head-mounted display and reaching real targets). This provides a baseline performance with which to compare the two augmented reality technologies. The blind reaching task results show an underestimation of distances with OST devices and smaller estimation errors in frontal spatial positions when the depth does not change. This happens with both OST and VST devices, compared with the real-world baseline. Such errors are compensated in the interaction kitchen scenario task. Thanks to the egocentric viewing geometry and the specific required task, which constrain the position perception on a table, both VST and OST have comparable and effective performance. Thus, our results show that such technologies have issues, though they can be effectively used in specific real tasks. This does not allow us to choose between VST and OST devices. Still, it provides a baseline and a registration framework for further studies and emphasizes the specificity of perception in interactive AR.

Virtual reality holography (VRH) is a new art form that synthesizes the qualities of traditional hand-drawing with the unique features of holography and virtual reality (VR) art. In this paper, we compare two VR art-making applications and describe the process of transferring VR imagery to digital holography. This will show how using the specificity of various VR art-making platforms and transferring the resulting images to holography can produce original pieces of art emphasizing the qualities of these new media. Such art productions are likely to enhance the value perception of holography and VR imagery within the sphere of the art establishment.

This paper investigates how manual know-how is manifested in instructed action in a technologized setting characterised by distributed spaces and bodies. Drawing on data from a temporary game lab where co-present participants try out virtual reality games, it analyses how an experienced VR user instructs novice participants in accomplishing the steps required to set up the game, in interacting with virtual objects and resolving troubles with tasks in the virtual environment. We show how instructions are fitted to and serve to advance the practical activity, and how they are recipient designed to teach novice users the manual and bodily techniques for interacting with the virtual game and its features. (c) 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Conversational AI agents are proliferating, embodying a range of devices such as smart speakers, smart displays, robots, cars, and more. We can envision a future where a personal conversational agent could migrate across different form factors and environments to always accompany and assist its user to support a far more continuous, personalized and collaborative experience. This opens the question of what properties of a conversational AI agent migrates across forms, and how it would impact user perception. To explore this, we developed a Migratable AI system where a user's information and/or the agent's identity can be preserved as it migrates across form factors to help its user with a task. We validated the system by designing a 2x2 between-subjects study to explore the effects of information migration and identity migration on user perceptions of trust, competence, likeability and social presence. Our results suggest that identity migration had a positive effect on trust, competence and social presence, while information migration had a positive effect on trust, competence and likeability. Overall, users report highest trust, competence, likeability and social presence towards the conversational agent when both identity and information were migrated across embodiments.

With advances in communication technologies, virtual reality (VR) has become increasingly popular. This study investigated the influence of virtual experiences on advertising effects. A 2 (virtual experience immersion: high vs. low) x 2 (virtual experience product control: high vs. low) x 2 (virtual experience product stimulation: high vs. low) between-subjects design was conducted. The results revealed that compared with the low-immersion virtual experience, the high-immersion virtual experience produced better advertisement attitudes. Furthermore, virtual experiences with high product control generated better advertisement attitudes when compared with virtual experiences with low product control. The two-way interactions between virtual experience product stimulation and immersion and between virtual experience product stimulation and virtual experience product control induced better brand attitude and purchase intention. In addition, telepresence and perceived enjoyment mediated the relationship between virtual experience and advertisement attitudes.

In this paper, we share real-time collaborative gaze behaviours, hand pointing, gesturing, and heart rate visualisations between remote collaborators using a live 360 degrees panoramic-video based Mixed Reality (MR) system. We first ran a pilot study to explore visual designs to combine communication cues with biofeedback (heart rate), aiming to understand user perceptions of empathic collaboration. We then conducted a formal study to investigate the effect of modality (Gaze+Hand, Hand-only) and interface (Near-Gaze, Embodied). The results show that the Gaze+Hand modality in a Near-Gaze interface is significantly better at reducing task load, improving co-presence, enhancing understanding and tightening collaborative behaviours compared to the conventional Embodied hand-only experience. Ranked as the most preferred condition, the Gaze+Hand in Near-Gaze condition is perceived to reduce the need for dividing attention to the collaborator's physical location, although it feels slightly less natural compared to the embodied visualisations. In addition, the Gaze+Hand conditions also led to more joint attention and less hand pointing to align mutual understanding. Lastly, we provide a design guideline to summarize what we have learned from the studies on the representation between modality, interface, and biofeedback.

This paper discusses the development and characterization of a system for replicating the sensation of object-hand collisions. We present a novel wearable haptic band, comprised of a C2 tactor voice coil actuator and a servo-powered pressing mechanism. A virtual reality simulation in which a user actively bounces a ball on the hand was synced with the vibrations from a C2 tactor and pressure from a servo motor. User studies were conducted to determine the just-noticeable difference of pressure stimuli and realism of impact events with and without vibrations during the rendering of transient forces. We found that the presence of vibration reduced the just-noticeable difference of pressure, and that the addition of a constant vibration feedback to pressure appears to have more of an impact on the perception of the lower pressure levels than the higher pressure levels. These results indicate important considerations for the design of future devices that render transient haptic forces.

This paper addresses an interactive virtual reality based application of a physical environment. The application presents notable aspects for education, data analysis and industry since the physical building serves as a research and development center. As the project based on physical environment, one of the main target for the work is also concentrated to give high presence feeling for end-users. The developed application is verified in real time. We also introduced our findings in real-time data communication, detection and analysis of human behavior in immersive environment, control systems integration to VR. Data analysis part of the research is linked to human behaviors based on the perception of computational intelligence methods. The activities in immersive environment are engaged to entertaining and joyful learning approaches. Some ideas for further development are also described.<bold> </bold>

In an Augmented Reality (AR) system using a brick-based tangible user interface, we present and evaluate alternative techniques for scene navigation. Going from two-dimensional brick-based input to three-dimensional navigation presents design issues. There are two fundamental methods for scene control: scene handling or viewpoint handling. The system has two views (plan and side), presenting action-perception spaces which are coincident and separate. Four tools were developed to explore design solutions, testing the alternative methods in each view. In a quantitative user experiment with a search-and-position task, we evaluated the four tools, measuring performance by trial completion time. Results showed that scene and viewpoint handling performed equally well in the plan view. In the side view, scene handling performed better. Subjective ranking showed that scene handling was always preferred to viewpoint handling. Results indicate that when action-perception spaces are coincident, the choice of handling method is less critical than when separate.

Intelligent advisory services have gradually penetrated into every aspect of people's lives. Ranging from e-commerce to e-government platforms, intelligent advisory systems, with anthropomorphic and user-centered design, can potentially help to remove the technical barriers that commonly exist on traditional websites. In the research background of an intelligent advisory system in the health domain, this study seeks to explore the impact of system/user communication style similarities on user's perceptions towards the virtual advisory service. Drawing on Similarity Theory, we proposed a research framework to uncover the above relationships. Through conducting preliminary online surveys, this study empirically shows that the communication style of the virtual health advisory system, when aligned well with the user's communication style, can engage the user better, leads to more enjoyment, credibility and clarity during the interaction process. These positive perceptions towards the system can potentially create a better sense of social presence and heightened interests in continuing using the advisor services.

In order to avoid the accident of manual live operation, make live working operation safer and improve the operation efficiency, it is the general trend to use robot or human-machine combination for operation. When the robot is operated remotely by the operator, detailed information of the working scene is often not available, or a large amount of three-dimensional information is lost due to the monitoring screen, leading to the operator's poor sense of presence and immersion, and more hidden dangers. In view of the above problems, this paper designs a virtual reality device that combines binocular camera and panoramic camera to focus on the work site and provide information of the surrounding environment for the dual-arm robot to work in the live operation scene of complex distribution network. Based on the previous researchers' NHPT, this paper improved to a new perforation experiment, and used the 5-point Likert scale method to conduct a questionnaire survey of the participants after the experiment. The experimental results show that virtual reality has stronger sense of presence and immersion than non-use, and the efficiency of robot teleoperation is also improved.

Current VR/AR systems are unable to reproduce the physical sensation of fluid vessels, due to the shifting nature of fluid motion. To this end, we introduce SWISH, an ungrounded mixed-reality interface, capable of affording the users a realistic haptic sensation of fluid behaviors in vessels. The chief mechanism behind SWISH is in the use of virtual reality tracking and motor actuation to actively relocate the center of gravity of a handheld vessel, emulating the moving center of gravity of a handheld vessel that contains fluid. In addition to solving challenges related to reliable and efficient motor actuation, our SWISH designs place an emphasis on reproducibility, scalability, and availability to the maker culture. Our virtual-to-physical coupling uses Nvidia Flex's Unity integration for virtual fluid dynamics with a 3D printed augmented vessel containing a motorized mechanical actuation system. To evaluate the effectiveness and perceptual efficacy of SWISH, we conduct a user study with 24 participants, 7 vessel actions, and 2 virtual fluid viscosities in a virtual reality environment. In all cases, the users on average reported that the SWISH bucket generates accurate tactile sensations for the fluid behavior. This opens the potential for multi-modal interactions with programmable fluids in virtual environments for chemistry education, worker training, and immersive entertainment.

In Handheld Augmented Reality, users look at AR scenes through the smartphone held in their hand. In this setting, having a mid-air pointing device like a pen in the other hand greatly expands the interaction possibilities. For example, it lets users create 3D sketches and models while on the go. However, perceptual issues in Handheld AR make it difficult to judge the distance of a virtual object, making it hard to align a pen to it. To address this, we designed and compared different visualizations of the pen's position in its virtual environment, measuring pointing precision, task time, activation patterns, and subjective ratings of helpfulness, confidence, and comprehensibility of each visualization. While all visualizations resulted in only minor differences in precision and task time, subjective ratings of perceived helpfulness and confidence favor a 'heatmap' technique that colors the objects in the scene based on their distance to the pen.

In recent years, there has been significant advancement in virtual reality (VR) technology development. VR headsets have become lighter, offer higher resolution, and possess more powerful computational capabilities. Previous research has indicated that the level of immersion in operating technological products can positively impact user experiences. This study explores the effects of interaction, vividness, embodiment, and media novelty on immersion, perceived usefulness, satisfaction, and continuance intention. This study collected data from 150 users of virtual reality devices with the help of a survey methodology and analyzed the data with the help of the Partial Least Square - Structural Equation Model (PLS-SEM) technique. The results indicate that interaction and vividness do not directly influence immersion. However, embodiment and media novelty indirectly affect perceived usefulness, satisfaction, and continuance intention by increasing immersion. Our findings underscore the importance of embodiment and media novelty for users in virtual environments. When users can experience a genuine sense of embodiment and novelty in the virtual environment, their perception of usefulness, satisfaction, and intention to continue using VR is enhanced. These results provide valuable guidance for designing and applying virtual reality, aiming to improve user experiences and continuance intention. This study contributes to analyzing the antecedents and consequences of immersion and offers insights that can assist academic research, VR-related development, and businesses' marketing efforts.

Manipulating objects with the hand is a common task in Virtual Reality (VR). However, some issues can occur during these manipulations. Occlusion is one issue that happens when the virtual hand covers an object, and therefore the perception of that object is hindered. Semi-transparent hands could solve this problem. Another issue is the difficulty of delicate hand object manipulation. By using interpenetrable hands, turning off the physics of the hands, this difficulty might decrease. Still, there is a lack of research into how significant the impact is while using these methods. In this paper, with the designs of semi-transparent hands and interpenetrable hands, we present the results of our conducted user study focusing on the effect of semi-transparent and interpenetrable hands on hand object manipulation tasks in virtual reality. The user study includes a VR environment where participants are asked to perform tasks. These tasks are recorded in objective results of accuracy and speed. Afterwards, they fill out a questionnaire about their opinion on the difficulty while using the different methods in which the subjective findings are recorded. Additionally, we improved the semi-transparent hands by adding a feature that smoothly transitions the hand from opaque to semi-transparent. As an input device, we used the Leap Motion Controller (LMC) for this user study. However, any hand tracking sensor that tracks hands from the VR headset's point of view could be used. Semi-transparent and interpenetrable hands have shown significant improvement for precise manipulation, which was verified by user feedback from the questionnaire and the data from the tasks.

In this paper, we present and evaluate Ambiotherm, a wearable accessory for Head Mounted Displays (HMD) that provides thermal and wind stimuli to simulate real-world environmental conditions, such as ambient temperatures and wind conditions, to enhance the sense of presence in Virtual Reality (VR). Ambiotherm consists of a Ambient Temperature Module that is attached to the user's neck, a Wind Simulation Module focused towards the user's face, and a Control Module utilizing Bluetooth communication. We demonstrate Ambiotherm with two VR environments, a hot desert, and a snowy mountain, to showcase the different types of simulated environmental conditions. We conduct several studies to 1) address design factors of the system and 2) evaluate Ambiotherm's effect on factors related to a user's sense of presence. Our findings show that the addition of wind and thermal stimuli significantly improves sensory and realism factors, contributing towards an enhanced sense of presence when compared to traditional VR experiences.

This paper presents a cognitive modelling approach to predict pilot errors and error recovery during the interaction with aircraft cockpit systems. The model allows execution of flight procedures in a virtual simulation environment and production of simulation traces. We present traces for the interaction with a future Flight Management System that show in detail the dependencies of two cognitive error production mechanisms that are integrated in the model: Learned Carelessness and Cognitive Lockup. The traces provide a basis for later comparison with human data in order to validate the model. The ultimate goal of the work is to apply the model within a method for the analysis of human errors to support human centred design of cockpit systems. As an example we analyze the perception of automatic flight mode changes.

The aim of the presented research was to quantify the distortion of depth perception when using stereoscopic displays. The visualization parameters of the used virtual reality system such as perspective, haploscopic separation and width of stereoscopic separation were varied. The experiment was designed to measure distortion in depth perception according to allocentric frames of reference. The results of the experiments indicate that some of the parameters have an antithetic effect which allows to compensate the distortion of depth perception for a range of depths. In contrast to earlier research which reported underestimation of depth perception we found that depth was overestimated when using true projection parameters according to the position of the eyes of the user and display geometry.

The paper describes the design of an innovative virtual reality (VR) system, based on a combination of an olfactory display and a visual display, to be used for investigating the directionality of the sense of olfaction. In particular, the design of an experimental setup to understand and determine to what extent the sense of olfaction is directional and whether there is prevalence of the sense of vision over the one of smell when determining the direction of an odor, is described. The experimental setup is based on low-cost VR technologies. In particular, the system is based on a custom directional olfactory display (OD), a head mounted display (HMD) to deliver both visual and olfactory cues, and an input device to register subjects' answers. The paper reports the design of the olfactory interface as well as its integration with the overall system.

While virtual reality applications flourish, there is a growing need for technological solutions to induce compelling self-motion, as an alternative to cumbersome motion platforms. Haptic devices target the sense of touch, yet more and more researchers managed to address the sense of motion by means of specific and localized haptic stimulations. This innovative approach constitutes a specific paradigm that can be called "haptic motion". This article aims to introduce, formalize, survey and discuss this relatively new research field. First, we summarize some core concepts of self-motion perception, and propose a definition of the haptic motion approach based on three criteria. Then, we present a summary of existing related literature, from which we formulate and discuss three research problems that we estimate key for the development of the field: the rationale to design a proper haptic stimulus, the methods to evaluate and characterize self-motion sensations, and the usage of multimodal motion cues.

The front facia gives the car vivid features; accordingly, and an appropriate product personalisation degree (PD) can improve product branding, related to the appearance design, while avoiding excessive design features. This study investigates the effects of the car front facia PD on user perceptions and proposes design guidelines for vehicle designers and manufacturers. An open-ended experiment was conducted with 30 participants using 60 car fronts to study user emotions and preferences related to product personality based on questionnaire and physiological electrical signal evaluation results. The features were extracted using the chaos theory and cvxEDA algorithm. The obtained results indicate that the PD was consistent with user emotions. Furthermore, when the consistency between PD and user emotions is high, a significant variation in user preferences can be observed. Therefore, when designing high-PD products, the sub-item product personalisation degree (sub-item PD) should be carefully managed, considering the overall logic and coherence.Highlights Product personalisation degree is positively correlated with the subjective and objective emotions of users.The impact of product personalisation degree on user preferences and subjective emotions is not always the same, particularly pleasure and arousal.When product personalisation degree is highly correlated with the subjective and objective emotions of users, the user preferences are highly differentiated.

In recent years, researchers in the architecture field have explored VR technology for various purposes in the architectural design process. Current efforts have supported the growing knowledge of VR utilization, specifically for the architectural design review process. In this study, we adapt the affordance concept from the ecological psychology study to add further evidence on VR utilization for the design review process. This study aims to develop an affordance-based design review method in architectural design by utilizing immersive VR technology. It sits at the crossroads of architecture design, virtual reality, and affordance research. This project aimed to create an affordance-based review method framework, a VR system to support the method, test both the method and the VR system, and assess the VR system's effectiveness as a companion system for the affordance-based design method process. The study was conducted in the scope of architectural education settings only. It used a third-year architectural design studio course as a case. This study confirms that the affordance-based design review method using virtual reality helps students improve their design work. The method reveals the presence of positive and negative affordances in their work. It also shows the differences between a student and supervisor in perceiving the affordances for reviewing design works.

Spatial orientation is an important skill in structural cardiac imaging. Until recently, 3D cardiac ultrasound has been visualized on a flat screen by using volume rendering. Mixed reality devices enhance depth perception, spatial awareness, interaction, and integration in the physical world, which can prove advantageous with 3D cardiac ultrasound images. In this work, we describe the design of a system for rendering 4D (3D + time) cardiac ultrasound data as virtual objects and evaluate it for ease of spatial orientation by comparing it with a standard clinical viewing platform in a user study. The user study required eight participants to do timed tasks and rate their experience. The results showed that virtual objects in mixed reality provided easier spatial orientation and morphological understanding despite lower perceived image quality. Participants familiar with mixed reality were quicker to orient in the tasks. This suggests that familiarity with the environment plays an important role, and with improved image quality and increased use, mixed reality applications may perform better than conventional 3D echocardiography viewing systems.

Investigations into comparisons of real and virtual environments serve multiple purposes. Results may improve development, implementation and application of virtual environments, inform about potentials for positive transfer of effects and facilitate decision making about appropriate virtual reality techniques in specific situations on human factors and ergonomics in human-system interaction. Absolute and relative estimations of object sizes, colours and greyscales were differentially investigated in virtual and real robot cells. Analyses revealed differences for environments (e.g. size, colour) and in some cases even for specific characteristics under investigation (e.g. robot cell size, 10% greyscales). Differential results on human task performance in virtual environments with potential technical constraints are crucial for safety and health reasons and because they provide a basis for human behaviour consequences and work system design decisions and requirements for transfer research. Results support informed decision making about virtual reality techniques and media selection in OSH applications on training and work systems design.

We developed a 3D virtual reality system with electro-tactile and pseudo force stimulation for presenting sensation of shape and stiffness of an object to the tips of thumb and index finger. Our system comprises two fingertip gloves and a finger-motion capture device. Each glove provides a shape sensation via an electrode array of the electro-tactile display and pseudo-force sensation via asymmetric vibration of a DC motor. In our demo experience, participants can grasp a 3D virtual object and perceive both tactile feedback on the fingertips and visual feedback of rigid or deformable shape of the objects showing on the monitor. Our previous study confirmed that the initial vibration amplitude, which represents the reaction force when the thumb and the index finger initially contact the surface of an object, effects to the intensity of stiffness perception. In the demo, we design several kinds of initial vibration amplitude, shape, and shape deformation for different perception of shape and stiffness.

This research proposes a customer-interaction scheme that enhances customer-satisfaction through spatial-augmented-reality and deep-learning-based emotion-recognition for restaurant 4.0, by monitoring user-experience levels using facial expressions. The customer-satisfaction analytical-model provides environmental knowledge-based dynamic capabilities to the human-centered dining environment, which is also utilized as an input to logistics 4.0 supply chain management, business-processes, and decision-support-systems for future analytics. The perception of the quality of food was enhanced by the recreation of the live environment on the preparation of the menu ordered, utilizing the waiting time after each ordering session. The dishes are being portrayed in three-dimensional (3D) virtual menu also, adding SAR features in a special angle creating a 3D illusion to the naked eye. Menu suggestions are also proposed depending on the recommendations of the analytical model. The deep learning model monitors customer-satisfaction levels through emotion recognition. The performance was analyzed with numerous experimental evaluations with ambient light levels and desired viewing angles, where we found optimal angle values for spatial augmented reality applications. A survey was carried out to analyze user perception on evaluating the proposed system. The results revealed 87.5% of responders were very satisfied with the 3D virtual experience. 79.2% indicated rareness of feedback on food and service and more than 50% liked a system that will automatically measure their satisfaction. The results indicate enhanced customer-satisfaction levels compared to existing schemes. The resulting insights may lay a foundation for a novel approach towards the management of user-experience, business-processes, decision support systems, and supply chain management of restaurant 4.0.

Grounding of kinesthetic feedback against a user's hand can increase the portability and wearability of a haptic device. However, the effects of different hand-grounding locations on haptic perception of a user are unknown. In this letter, we investigate the effects of three different hand-grounding locations-back of the hand, proximal phalanx of the index finger, and middle phalanx of the index finger-on haptic perception using a newly designed wearable haptic device. The novel device can provide kinesthetic feedback to the user's index finger in two directions: along the finger-axis and in the finger's flexion-extension-movement direction. We measure users' haptic perception for each grounding location through a psychophysical experiment for each of the two feedback directions. Results show that among the studied locations, grounding at proximal phalanx has a smaller average just noticeable difference for both feedback directions, indicating a more sensitive haptic perception. The realism of the haptic feedback, based on user ratings, was the highest with grounding at the middle phalanx for feedback along the finger axis, and at the proximal phalanx for feedback in the flexion-extension direction. Users identified the haptic feedback as most comfortable with grounding at the back of the hand for feedback along the finger axis and at the proximal phalanx for feedback in the flexion-extension direction. These findings show that the choice of grounding location has a significant impact on the user's haptic perception and qualitative experience. The results provide insights for designing next-generation wearable hand-grounded kinesthetic devices to achieve better haptic performance and user experience in virtual reality and teleoperated robotic applications. Z8 0

In interventional radiology, inserting a needle to perform a biopsy requires a high haptic sensitivity. The traditional learning methods based on observation of skilled clinicians and training on real patients are questionable. Virtual Reality (VR) surgical simulators have previously been shown to be efficient for training. However, there is a lack of guidelines to ensure the fidelity of these simulators. In this paper, an iterative design approach is used to design and evaluate the user interface for a VR needle insertion trainer. Two experimental studies were conducted to evaluate some aspects of the system user interface. Results permit to validate some design choices and suggest future design directions to improve the interface and environment fidelity of the system.

This article reports a variety of sensory and perceptual consequences of eliminating, via a rigid fingertip sheath, the spatially distributed fingertip force information that is normally available during tactile and haptic sensing. Sensory measures included tactile spatial acuity, tactile force, and vibrotactile thresholds. Suprathreshold tasks included perception of roughness, perception of 2-D edge orientation, and detection of a simulated 3-D mass in simulated tissue via fingertip palpation. Of these performance measures, only vibrotactile thresholds and texture perception failed to show substantial impairment. The results are discussed in terms of their implications for the future design of haptic interfaces for teleoperator and virtual environment systems.

Virtual reality is a powerful tool for industrial applications. The article at hand addresses designers of industrial virtual environments. It summarizes key aspects to design immersive and coherent virtual environments. Furthermore, relevant influencing factors for a high quality virtual environment and tools to quantify this quality are presented. So far, a methodology to design, evaluate, and transfer knowledge from virtual environments into reality has been missing and is of high value for industrial applications. The proposed methodical approach includes the steps application analysis, technology selection and integration, design of virtual environment, evaluation of simulator quality, as well as discussion of the real-world validity. The method is shown on the example of a virtual human-robot working cell used to analyze the human perception of robot behavior during mutual assembly processes. The quality of the virtual environment is evaluated to be adequate for those purposes and the transfer of knowledge gained in virtuality on a corresponding real-world application is discussed. To the best of our knowing a system like the presented one, including full-body tracking, finger tracking, a virtual avatar and a head-mounted display has not been used for industrial use cases and human-robot cooperation before.

Two musical entertainment systems-the Bubble Bumble and the Magic Music Desk-let users create and play back music in 3D physical environments through augmented reality interfaces. During the process of creating and playing back music, users encounter visual-speech,visual-tactile, and,tactile-auditory experiences.

We have developed a virtual reality (VR) system that integrates a three-dimensional tracking device with a video-capture VR platform to record upper limb movements. The influence of target velocity on planning and execution of reaching movements was studied in five healthy subjects. Our initial results suggest that a target's velocity is considered when planning an interceptive action and that a hand reaching toward a moving virtual target is controlled in a similar way to how it is in the real visual environment.

In design education, immersive virtual reality (VR) has grown as a visualization and interaction tool. Nonetheless, little research has been done on how individuals self-perception within VR affects their performance. This self-awareness is carried out using avatars that depict the virtual body through multiple points of view. This article assessed three different conditions of virtual body within a design exercise to better understand how these affected idea generations and spatial skills. To do so, an embodiment-cognition framework to evaluate the influence of the virtual body in immersive VR environments was developed. The designed theoretical framework relies on the concept of embodiment and its relevance to situated cognition. Research has supported how cognition connects the mind and body and the relevance of the individual's interaction with its surroundings to make it meaningful. Likewise, more immersive environments can increase the sensation of presence in VR, allowing individuals to behave more naturally. Also, through the connection with the surroundings, individuals liberate cognitive load, allowing them to relocate cognitive efforts in developing knowledge. General findings support how the use of a more embodied virtual body can elicit higher levels of presence but also increase cognitive load which can ultimately hinder cognition. However, VR interactions aided participants to develop spatial skills and allowed idea generation. Furthermore, the framework proposed can be applied to assess students' cognitive processes beyond the discipline's boundaries.

Cybersickness (CS) is one of the challenges that has hindered the widespread adoption of Virtual Reality (VR). Consequently, researchers continue to explore novel means to mitigate the undesirable effects associated with this affliction, one that may require a combination of remedies as opposed to a solitary stratagem. Inspired by research probing into the use of distractions as a means to control pain, we investigated the efficacy of this countermeasure against CS, studying how the introduction of temporally time-gated distractions affects this malady during a virtual experience featuring active exploration. Downstream of this, we studied how other aspects of the VR experience are affected by this intervention. We discuss the results of a between-subjects study manipulating the presence, sensory modality, and nature of periodic and short-lived (5-12 seconds) distractor stimuli across four experimental conditions: 1) no-distractors (ND); 2) auditory distractors (AD); 3) visual distractors (VD); 4) cognitive distractors (CD). Two of these conditions (VD and AD) formed a yoked control design wherein every matched pair of 'seers' and 'hearers' was periodically exposed to distractors that were identical in terms of content, temporality, duration, and sequence. In the CD condition, each participant had to periodically perform a 2-back working memory task, the duration and temporality of which was matched to distractors presented in each matched pair of the yoked conditions. These three conditions were compared to a baseline control group featuring no distractions. Results indicated that the reported sickness levels were lower in all three distraction groups in comparison to the control group. The intervention also increased the amount of time users were able to endure the VR simulation and avoided causing detriments to spatial memory and virtual travel efficiency. Overall, it appears that it may be possible to make users less consciously aware and bothered by the symptoms of CS, thereby reducing its perceived severity.

In this paper, we describe a user study comparing five different locomotion interfaces for virtual reality locomotion. We compared a standard non-motion cueing interface, Joystick (Xbox), with four motion cueing interfaces, NaviChair (stool with springs), MuvMan (sit/stand active stool), Head-Directed (Oculus Rift DK2), and Swivel Chair (everyday office chair with leaning capability). Each interface had two degrees of freedom to move forward/backward and rotate using velocity (rate) control. The aim of this mixed methods study was to better understand relevant user experience factors and guide the design of future locomotion interfaces. This study employed methods from HCI to provide an understanding of why users behave a certain way while using the interface and to unearth any new issues with the design. Participants were tasked to search for objects in a virtual city while they provided talk-aloud feedback and we logged their behaviour. Subsequently, they completed a post-experimental questionnaire on their experience. We found that the qualitative themes of control, usability, and experience echoed the results of the questionnaire, providing internal validity. The quantitative measures revealed the Joystick to be significantly more comfortable and precise than the motion cueing interfaces. However, the qualitative feedback and interviews showed this was due to the reduced perceived controllability and safety of the motion cueing interfaces. Designers of these interfaces should consider using a backrest if users need to lean backwards and avoid using velocity-control for rotations when using HMDs.

As robots are progressively introduced in public spaces, it is crucial to develop systems that move appropriately to convey variable internal state and context responsiveness. In this paper, we present six variations of a virtual robot designed after characters from pop-culture. The motion of each character is examined using movement analysis techniques, and the appropriate features are designed for an aerial robot platform in virtual reality. This work is meant to be a foundation for future user studies that investigates how these robot movements are perceived by humans and if varying context changes that perception.

As virtual reality expands in popularity, an increasingly diverse audience is gaining exposure to immersive virtual environments (IVEs). A significant body of research has demonstrated how perception and action work in such environments, but most of this work has been done studying adults. Less is known about how physical and cognitive development affect perception and action in IVEs, particularly as applied to preteen and teenage children. Accordingly, in the current study we assess how preteens (children aged 8-12 years) and teenagers (children aged 15-18 years) respond to mismatches between their motor behavior and the visual information presented by an IVE. Over two experiments, we evaluate how these individuals recalibrate their actions across functionally distinct systems of movement. The first experiment analyzed forward walking recalibration after exposure to an IVE with either increased or decreased visual flow. Visual flow during normal bipedal locomotion was manipulated to be either twice or half as fast as the physical gait. The second experiment leveraged a prism throwing adaptation paradigm to test the effect of recalibration on throwing movement. In the first experiment, our results show no differences across age groups, although subjects generally experienced a post-exposure effect of shortened distance estimation after experiencing visually faster flow and longer distance estimation after experiencing visually slower flow. In the second experiment, subjects generally showed the typical prism adaptation behavior of a throwing after-effect error. The error lasted longer for preteens than older children. Our results have implications for the design of virtual systems with children as a target audience.

We propose a new action-transferred design approach by which the benefits of embodied cognition and activity can be realized to enhance spatial learning and usability for navigating virtual spaces. The action-transferred design approach is supported by theories of learning, action-perception, and neuropsychology. These theories help us understand how human action can be transferred to different body parts for improving the usability of interaction techniques and why the acquired spatial knowledge using the transferred action may remain the same independent of the used body parts. The finger-walking-in-place (FWIP) navigation technique is used as a design example to demonstrate the concept of the action-transferred design approach. Leveraging 3D immersive virtual reality technology, we performed an empirical study to evaluate the performance of the action-transferred FWIP navigation technique in terms of spatial knowledge acquisition. The FWIP navigation technique was compared with a full-body-based walking-like (sensor-fusion walking-in-place; SF-WIP) navigation technique and a well-known, convenient (Joystick) navigation technique using a common input device, that is, a wand with a joystick. Both the action-transferred and the full-body-based navigation techniques were more effective for spatial learning than the navigation technique using the common input device. However, only the action-transferred FWIP navigation technique can provide users with the convenience of navigating with their fingers. These results suggest that the action-transferred design approach is useful in designing a navigation technique supporting users' spatial learning performance more effectively and conveniently. Possible design implications for broader applications are discussed and indicate that the action-transferred design approach is worth further study.

A special questionnaire (VRUSE) has been designed to measure the usability of a VR system according to the attitude and perception of its users. Important aspects of VR systems were carefully derived to produce key usability factors for the questionnaire. Unlike questionnaires designed for generic interfaces VRUSE is specifically designed to cater for evaluating virtual environments, being a diagnostic tool providing a wealth of information about a user's viewpoint of the interface. VRUSE can be used to great effect with other evaluation techniques to pinpoint problematical areas of a VR interface. Other applications include bench-marking of competitor VR systems. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

The way a system in a virtual environment interacts with the user through an agent-mediated interface could potentially influence the overall perception of the system or certain aspects of it. To investigate which type of visualization influences presence, attractiveness, and sense of agency, we designed four different visualizations of agent-mediated interfaces, namely audio-only without embodiment, as an object, as an anthropomorphic object, and with a human appearance. Our results show that presence and agency are not affected by the type of visualization of the agent, while perceived attractiveness shows differences in hedonic as well as in pragmatic quality.

Eye movement plays an important role in face-to-face communication. In this work, we present a deep learning approach for synthesizing the eye movements of avatars for two-party conversations and evaluate viewer perception of different types of eye motions. We aim to synthesize believable gaze behavior based on head motions and audio features as they would typically be available in virtual reality applications. To this end, we captured the head motion, eye motion, and audio of several two-party conversations and trained an RNN-based model to predict where an avatar looks in a two-person conversational scenario. We evaluated our approach with a user study on the perceived quality of the eye animation and compared our method with other eye animation methods. While our model was not rated highest, our model and our user study lead to a series of insights on model features, viewer perception, and study design that we present.

This paper presents a study in which we investigated the use of different devices and mechanisms to implement Mixed Reality settings for peer recommendations on furniture. In particular, we developed a mechanism to scan rooms for new furniture to be placed in, make the resulting 3D environment available to users and display virtual furniture in it. In an exploratory study, we asked 21 participants to use this environment to support an imaginary friend in their buying decision on a couch for their living room. This was done in five conditions, including a static photo of the living room, 3D representations on mobile phones and PC screens as well as mobile (cardboard-based) VR and a dedicated VR HMD. In the study, we wanted to explore how display size, 3D experience and the fidelity of HMDs affect the quality of support for recommendations by the remote peers. Our results show that the screen-based and VR-based 3D mechanisms outperform a simple photo and that VR HMDs created highest perceptions of spatial presence and were preferred by users. Surprisingly, users perceived all mechanisms showing the 3D environment to create similar qualities of support for their recommendations. We analyze these findings and derive design recommendations from them.

Pseudo-haptic techniques are used to modify haptic perception by appropriately changing visual feedback to body movements. Based on the knowledge that tendon vibration can affect our somatosensory perception, this article proposes a method for leveraging tendon vibration to enhance pseudo-haptics during free arm motion. Three experiments were performed to examine the impact of tendon vibration on the range and resolution of pseudo-haptics. The first experiment investigated the effect of tendon vibration on the detection threshold of the discrepancy between visual and physical motion. The results indicated that vibrations applied to the inner tendons of the wrist and elbow increased the threshold, suggesting that tendon vibration can augment the applicable visual motion gain by approximately 13% without users detecting the visual/physical discrepancy. Furthermore, the results demonstrate that tendon vibration acts as noise on haptic motion cues. The second experiment assessed the impact of tendon vibration on the resolution of pseudo-haptics by determining the just noticeable difference in pseudo-weight perception. The results suggested that the tendon vibration does not largely compromise the resolution of pseudo-haptics. The third experiment evaluated the equivalence between the weight perception triggered by tendon vibration and that by visual motion gain, that is, the point of subjective equality. The results revealed that vibration amplifies the weight perception and its effect was equivalent to that obtained using a gain of 0.64 without vibration, implying that the tendon vibration also functions as an additional haptic cue. Our results provide design guidelines and future work for enhancing pseudo-haptics with tendon vibration.

This study seeks to provide insight into twodimensional (2D) artists' approach to three-dimensional (3D) creativity within a virtual environment. Specifically, this research investigates the widespread assumption that Virtual Reality (VR) provides a natural interface by which traditionally 2D-centric artists may explore 3D content creation. Using a prototype of Canvox, a VR tool that uses voxels to represent 3D space with a single stroke [1], we performed a qualitative study in which artists were observed producing familiar assets in a virtual space. Here, we present data on 2D artists' expectations for the User Interface (Space, Navigation, Scale, Tool Accessibility, Lighting), Functionality (Tool Functionality, Materials, Brushes, Primitives), Applications (Communication Mechanisms, Use Cases), and User Mindset (Ideation, Creation, Opportunities) for VR creation. Our results offer insights into the bifurcations between artists' mental models of 2D and VR creativity: in VR, artists expect to create content, while in 2D, artists expect to render representations of content. We also demonstrate the potential use cases of this emerging creative platform.

Previous research on eye-hand coordination training systems has investigated user performance on a wall, 2D touchscreens, and in Virtual Reality (VR). In this paper, we designed an eye-hand coordination reaction test to investigate and compare user performance in three different virtual environments (VEs) VR, Augmented Reality (AR), and a 2D touchscreen. VR and AR conditions also included two feedback conditions mid-air and passive haptics. Results showed that compared to AR, participants were significantly faster and made fewer errors both in 2D and VR. However, compared to VR and AR, throughput performance of the participants was significantly higher in the 2D touchscreen condition. No significant differences were found between the two feedback conditions. The results show the importance of assessing precision and accuracy in eye-hand coordination training and suggest that it is currently not advisable to use AR headsets in such systems.

User integration in the architectural design process raises the issue of tools for communicating between architectural-design experts and human-factor experts or users. Architectural representations, such as two-dimensional (2D) plans, cardboard models, and three-dimensional (3D) renderings, should be used to support the active participation of users. However, previous studies have highlighted the limitations of the most conventionally used architectural representations, and the feelings induced by the environment are difficult to anticipate during the architectural design process. This study focused on the impact of six architectural representations - 2D plans, cardboard models, 3D renderings, CAD models, full-scale virtual models, and full-scale physical prototypes - on users' feelings in the context of office design. The study found that, while users' feelings with regard to use, aesthetics, and emotion in relation to office design were similar for the full-scale virtual model and full-scale physical prototype, they were different for the other representation types. Therefore, these representation types should only be used with experts such as architects. To support the active participation of users, full-scale virtual models and full-scale physical prototypes should be proposed. Indeed, these representation types can aid in the study of the feelings an environment induces in users.

This paper presents a highly interactive and immersive Virtual Reality Training System (VRTS) (beWare of the Robot) in terms of a serious game that simulates in real-time the cooperation between industrial robotic manipulators and humans, executing simple manufacturing tasks. The scenario presented refers to collaborative handling in tape-laying for building aerospace composite parts. The tools, models and techniques developed and used to build the beWare of the Robot application are described. System setup and configuration are presented in detail, as well as user tracking and navigation issues. Special emphasis is given to the interaction techniques used to facilitate implementation of virtual human-robot (HR) collaboration. Safety issues, such as contacts and collisions are mainly tackled through emergencies, i.e. warning signals in terms of visual stimuli and sound alarms. Mental safety is of utmost priority and the user is provided augmented situational awareness and enhanced perception of the robots motion due to immersion and real-time interaction offered by the VRTS as well as by special warning stimuli. The short-term goal of the research was to investigate users enhanced experience and behaviour inside the virtual world while cooperating with the robot and positive pertinent preliminary findings are presented and briefly discussed. In the longer term, the system can be used to investigate acceptability of H-R collaboration and, ultimately, serve as a platform for programming collaborative H-R manufacturing cells. Z8 3

Daylight provision to the indoor space is affected by different building elements that cannot be fully controlled by the users, such as the window size of a space. The dimensions of the fenestration not only affect the lighting levels, but they also affect how the space is perceived by its users. The present study examines three different window sizes via virtual reality, to study how they affect the perception of both a small and a large space at high latitudes. Additionally, two context scenarios (socializing and working), as well as three different sky types (overcast sky and clear skies with either high or low sun angle) were evaluated. The experimental study applied a mixed design with within-subjects and between-subjects factors. A total of 150 participants evaluated the scenes using a Likert-type scale to rate eight different subjective attributes. The statistical results showed that both window size and space type significantly affect the participants' spatial perception, as well as their satisfaction with the amount of outside view. Larger windows led to more positively evaluated spaces for all studied attributes. Moreover, a significant interaction was found between window size and type of space for the satisfaction with the amount of view in the space, indicating that the window size was dependent on the type of space in which the windows are located. Specifically, the window sizes were rated higher in the small space than in the large space for the evaluation of amount of view. The findings show that window size affects how people perceive a space, and additionally, that other spatial features, such as space type, affect window size preferences. Z8 0

As the demand for realistic sensations in virtual reality (VR) environments escalates, interfaces that exploit cross-modal interactions between vision and haptics are gaining prominence. Pseudo-haptics, offering a tactile illusion without mechanical feedback devices, has emerged as a viable solution to enhance user immersion by simulating various sensations such as texture, fluid resistance, and weight. However, a potential issue in the long-term effectiveness of these illusions, particularly habituation, where the illusion diminishes after prolonged exposure, remains a concern. This study investigates whether habituation to pseudo-haptic weight illusions occurs with extended use. We conducted quantitative measurements of pseudo-haptic weight perception before and after prolonged exposure. The findings indicate a diminishing effect of pseudo-haptic weight illusion with repeated exposure, particularly among participants with high accuracy in weight perception. This study contributes important insights into the design of VR experiences, highlighting the need to consider the habituation effects when implementing pseudo-haptic illusions for weight perception.

Sensory science has advanced significantly in the past decade and is quickly evolving to become a key tool for predicting food product success in the marketplace. Increasingly, sensory data techniques are moving towards more dynamic aspects of sensory perception, taking account of the various stages of user-product interactions. Recent technological advancements in virtual reality and augmented reality have unlocked the potential for new immersive and interactive systems which could be applied as powerful tools for capturing and deciphering the complexities of human sensory perception. This paper reviews recent advancements in virtual and augmented reality technologies and identifies and explores their potential application within the field of sensory science. The paper also considers the possible benefits for the food industry as well as key challenges posed for widespread adoption. The findings indicate that these technologies have the potential to alter the research landscape in sensory science by facilitating promising innovations in five principal areas: consumption context, biometrics, food structure and texture, sensory marketing and augmenting sensory perception. Although the advent of augmented and virtual reality in sensory science offers new exciting developments, the exploitation of these technologies is in its infancy and future research will understand how they can be fully integrated with food and human responses. Industrial relevance: The need for sensory evaluation within the food industry is becoming increasingly complex as companies continuously compete for consumer product acceptance in today's highly innovative and global food environment. Recent technological developments in virtual and augmented reality offer the food industry new opportunities for generating more reliable insights into consumer sensory perceptions of food and beverages, contributing to the design and development of new products with optimised consumer benefits. These technologies also hold significant potential for improving the predictive validity of newly launched products within the marketplace.

Weight is perceived through the combination of multiple sensory systems, and a wide range of factors - including touch, visual, and force senses - can influence the perception of heaviness. There have been remarkable advancements in the development of haptic interfaces throughout the years. However, a number of challenges limit the progression to enable humans to sense the weight in virtual reality (VR). This article presents an overview of the factors that influence how weight is perceived and the phenomenon that contributes to various types of weight illusions. A systematic review has been undertaken to assess the development of weight perception in VR, underlying haptic technology that renders the mass of a virtual object, and the creation of weight perception through pseudo-haptic. We summarize the approaches from the perspective of haptic and pseudo-haptic cues that exhibit the sense of weight such as force, skin deformation, vibration, inertia, control-display ratio, velocity, body gestures, and audio-visual representation. The design challenges are underlined, and research gaps are discussed, including accuracy and precision, weight discrimination, heavyweight rendering, and absolute weight simulation. This article is anticipated to aid in the development of more realistic weight perception in VR and stimulated new research interest in this topic. Z8 0

The basis of this research is concerned with designing and implementing a system that allows a player to engage in a virtual reality (VR) game with better immersion. The research was based on the idea that an avatar generated using real-time motion capture would improve the player's immersion by increasing the perception of presence. When playing the VR games a common problem was observed. The user's avatar (Virtual agent) was not improved as most of the games were played using limited controllers. The inputs from these controllers were noted as insufficient to generate the entire body's animation. This research attempts to solve this problem by proposing/ implementing full body motion capture and the establishment of the self-avatar in real time in a VR game. This involved designing a system that utilizes the effective technologies for 3D imaging, transmission and haptic feedback. The research attempts to measure the immersion by enhancing measuring instruments (Norman, 2010). It is complimented by a user-based study that involves/involved collecting both qualitative and quantitative data through questionnaire and observation.

Augmented reality (AR) is a rapidly advancing technology that enhances users' perception of the real world by overlaying virtual elements. The geospatial community has been gradually focusing on AR because of its ability to create immersive spatial experiences and facilitate spatial learning. However, designing effective AR interfaces poses several challenges, including managing information overload, providing intuitive user interaction, and optimizing system performance. The management of the Level of Detail (LoD) is a crucial part of an AR-enhanced cartographic representations as it can greatly impact the quantity, accuracy, and usefulness of the information being conveyed and enhance the readability and usability of an application. In this paper, we present a systematic review of published research on the management of LoD for AR cartographic representations based on various dimensions that focus on the types of data that are visualized, the techniques used, and the user actions that trigger LoD change. A corpus of fifteen scientific papers involving different LoD management techniques within AR environments have been analyzed. The limited number of papers implies that this kind of applications is in its infancy. The review provides a synthesis of existing knowledge and identifies challenges for future research in this exciting and dynamic field.

It is common for people to capture and share experiences using photos or videos, but sharing experiences through photos, videos, or even 360-degree videos limits people to reliving memories from the original perspective. This research is to design a unique time-machine-like experience sharing method through virtual reality (VR), which allows people to capture their experience in 3D and to 'enter' into others' past experiences in VR, move around and relive their memories from different perspectives. Through my doctoral research, I describe a three stages of research to understand user experience, to investigate people's privacy perceptions and to develop effective privacy protection mechanisms for such relived experiences in VR.

Embodying a virtual creature or animal in Virtual Reality (VR) is becoming common, and can have numerous beneficial impacts. For instance, it can help actors improve their performance of a computer-generated creature, or it can endow the user with empathy towards threatened animal species. However, users must feel a sense of embodiment towards their virtual representation, commonly achieved by providing congruent sensory feedback. Providing effective visuomotor feedback in dysmorphic bodies can be challenging due to human-animal morphology differences. Thus, the purpose of this study was to experiment with the inclusion of audio and audio-tactile feedback to begin unveiling their influence towards animal avatar embodiment. Two experiments were conducted to examine the effects of different sensory feedback on participants' embodiment in a dog avatar in an Immersive Virtual Environment (IVE). The first experiment (n=24) included audio, tactile, audio-tactile, and baseline conditions. The second experiment (n=34) involved audio and baseline conditions only.

Previous research on distance estimation in virtual reality (VR) has well established that even for geometrically accurate virtual objects and environments users tend to systematically mis-estimate distances. This has implications for Social VR, where it introduces variables in personal space and proxemics behavior that change social behaviors compared to the real world. One yet unexplored factor is related to the trend that avatars' embodied cues in Social VR are often scaled, e.g., by making one's head bigger or one's voice louder, to make social cues more pronounced over longer distances. In this paper we investigate how the perception of avatar distance is changed based on two means for scaling embodied social cues: visual head scale and verbal volume scale. We conducted a human-subject study employing a mixed factorial design with two Social VR avatar representations (full-body, head-only) as a between factor as well as three visual head scales and three verbal volume scales (up-scaled, accurate, down-scaled) as within factors. For three distances from social to far-public space, we found that visual head scale had a significant effect on distance judgments and should be tuned for Social VR, while conflicting verbal volume scales did not, indicating that voices can be scaled in Social VR without immediate repercussions on spatial estimates. We discuss the interactions between the factors and implications for Social VR.

A common approach to visio-haptic human-machine interfaces adopts a simpler design by shifting grounded force feedback away from the virtual scene. The alternative design favors intuitiveness by displaying visual and grounded force feedback at the same location (i.e. visuo-haptic co-location) but requires a sensibly more complex implementation and a tedious kinematic conception. The benefits of one approach over the other had not been fully investigated. Notably, (i) while users seem to better operate under co-located condition, it's not always the case. (ii) In the case of a desktop interface, the cost of a complex implementation to achieve co-location is challenged. We aim here to resolve (i) by conducting a user-centered experiment in which participants performed two generic tasks in co-located and delocated configurations, and comparing their performances. Additionally, we intend to fill the gap (ii) by testing a design without continuous head tracking, i.e., with static co-location. Participants' performances are assessed in terms of execution time, accuracy and force variation, while their subjective experiences are collected via a survey. Findings indicate that co-located configurations lead to shorter execution times, more accurate motions, better management of forces and are largely preferred by users, even when the co-location is pre-calibrated statically.

Increasing presence is one of the primary goals of virtual reality research. A crucial aspect is that users are capable of distinguishing their self from the external virtual world. The hypothesis we investigate is that wearable haptics play an important role in the body experience and could thereby contribute to the immersion of the user in the virtual environment. A within-subject study (n=32) comparing the embodiment of a virtual hand with different implementations of haptic feedback (force feedback, vibrotactile feedback, and no haptic feedback) is presented. Participants wore a glove with haptic feedback devices at thumb and index finger. They were asked to put virtual cubes on a moving virtual target. Touching a virtual object caused vibrotactile-feedback, force-feedback or no feedback depending on the condition. These conditions were provided both synchronously and asynchronously. Embodiment was assessed quantitatively with the proprioceptive drift and subjectively via a questionnaire. Results show that haptic feedback significantly improves the subjective embodiment of a virtual hand and that force feedback leads to stronger responses to certain subscales of subjective embodiment. These outcomes are useful guidelines for wearable haptic designer and represent a basis for further research concerning human body experience, in reality, and in virtual environments.

The current research aims to study the link between the type of vision experienced in a collaborative immersive virtual environment (active vs. multiple passive), the type of error one looks for during a cooperative multi-user exploration of a design project (affordance vs. perceptual violations), and the type of setting in which multi-user perform (field in Experiment 1 vs. laboratory in Experiment 2). The relevance of this link is backed by the lack of conclusive evidence on an active vs. passive vision advantage in cooperative search tasks within software based on immersive virtual reality (IVR). Using a yoking paradigm based on the mixed usage of simultaneous active and multiple passive viewings, we found that the likelihood of error detection in a complex 3D environment was characterized by an active vs. multi-passive viewing advantage depending on: (1) the degree of knowledge dependence of the type of error the passive/active observers were looking for (low for perceptual violations, vs. high for affordance violations), as the advantage tended to manifest itself irrespectively from the setting for affordance, but not for perceptual violations; and (2) the degree of social desirability possibly induced by the setting in which the task was performed, as the advantage occurred irrespectively from the type of error in the laboratory (Experiment 2) but not in the field (Experiment 1) setting. Results are relevant to future development of cooperative software based on IVR used for supporting the design review. A multi-user design review experience in which designers, engineers and end-users all cooperate actively within the IVR wearing their own head mounted display, seems more suitable for the detection of relevant errors than standard systems characterized by a mixed usage of active and passive viewing.

Augmented Reality (AR) has become a mainstream technology in the development of solutions for repair and maintenance operations. Although most of the AR solutions are still limited to specific contexts in industry, some consumer electronics companies have started to offer pre-packaged AR solutions as alternative to video-based tutorials (VT) for minor maintenance operations. In this paper, we present a comparative study of the acquired knowledge and user perception achieved with AR and VT solutions in some maintenance tasks of IT equipment. The results indicate that both systems help users to acquire knowledge in various aspects of equipment maintenance. Although no statistically significant differences were found between AR and VT solutions, users scored higher on the AR version in all cases. Moreover, the users explicitly preferred the AR version when evaluating three different usability and satisfaction criteria. For the AR version, a strong and significant correlation was found between the satisfaction and the achieved knowledge. Since the AR solution achieved similar learning results with higher usability scores than the video-based tutorials, these results suggest that AR solutions are the most effective approach to substitute the typical paper-based instructions in consumer electronics.

Joint agency, a group-level sense of agency, has been studied as an essential social cognitive element while engaging in collaborative tasks. The joint agency has been actively investigated in diverse contexts (e.g., performance, reward schedules, and predictability), yet the studies were mostly conducted in traditional 2D computer environments. Since virtual reality (VR) is an emerging technology for remote collaboration, we aimed to probe the effects of traditional reward schedule factors along with novel VR features (i.e., avatar visibility) on joint agency during remote collaboration. In this study, we implemented an experiment based on a card-matching game to test the effects of the reward schedule (fair or equal) and the counterpart's avatar hand visibility (absent or present) on the sense of joint agency. The results showed that participants felt a higher sense of joint agency when the reward was distributed equally regardless of the individual performance and when the counterpart's avatar hand was present. Moreover, the effects of reward schedule and avatar hand visibility interacted, with a bigger amount of deficit for the absent avatar hand when the reward was distributed differentially according to performance. Interestingly, the sense of joint agency was strongly correlated to the level of collaborative performance, as well as to perceptions of other social cognitive factors, including cooperativeness, reward fairness, and social presence. These results contribute to the understanding of joint agency perceptions during VR collaboration and provide design guidelines for remote collaborative tasks and environments for users' optimal social experience and performance.

This work investigates the connection among optical aspects of photographic composition and the quality, perception and interpretation of the level of realism of images. Therefore, to investigate this connection, an experiment was carried out in two steps: The first step consisted of performing analyzes of the optical or photographic contrasts of previously selected images. The second step was the elaboration of a questionnaire with 19 images selected in the first step, aiming to collect data about the perception and opinion of the users. Finally, the objective data from the first step was crossed with the subjective data from the second. The conclusion indicates evidence of the connection or convergence between images that obey the principles of photographic composition that are perceived as having better realism by the users. It is plausible to consider the importance of photo-graphic theory to image design for the users perceive the images as more realistic.

We present a novel input/output device to display the tactile properties of surface materials. The proposed Tactile Computer Mouse (TCM) is equipped with a series of actuators that can create perceptually relevant tactile cues to a user. The display capabilities of our TCM match the major tactile dimensions in human surface material perception, namely, hardness, friction, warmth, microscopic roughness, and macroscopic roughness. The TCM also preserves necessary interaction capabilities of a typical computer mouse. In addition to the TCM design, we introduce data acquisition procedures and concepts that are necessary to derive a parametric representation of a surface material and further demonstrate the corresponding rendering approach on the TCM. We conducted subjective experiments to determine tactile property ratings of real materials, perceived property ratings using the TCM, and how precisely subjects match the real materials to corresponding virtual material representations using the TCM in the absence of visual and audible clues. Our experimental results show that our TCM successfully displays the five fundamental tactile dimensions and that the twenty participants were able to perceive the TCM-produced virtual surface material tactile sensations with a recognition rate of 89.6 percent for ten different materials.

With the deepening advancement of informatization, higher education has embraced new technology educational tools. However, the superficiality and overemphasis on theory in China's industrial design education are facing significant challenges. Immersive industrial design instruction offers possibility for enhancing students' learning experiences, making them more enriching and practical. Theoretical foundations, such as constructivism learning theory, cognitive learning theory, and multisensory stimulus theory, provide guidance for immersive industrial design instruction from the perspectives of the external environment, bodily perception, and psychological states. Technologically, virtual reality, augmented reality, and digital twin technologies drive and support the shaping and optimization of immersive experiences in industrial design instruction. Hence, this study establishes an immersive industrial design education model based on virtual reality technology. In practical terms, experiment participants engage in product design practices through a virtual reality-based immersive teaching platform. Taking the example of surgical bed design within a medical system and interactive operations during certain surgical procedures, participants complete human-product interaction design and interface design by practicing product design, mastering internal structures, dimensions, assembly relationships, color, materials, finishing, and rendering product-environment scenarios. The study employs the UTAUT2 survey questionnaire to analyze and investigate the proposed immersive industrial design teaching platform. The findings confirm that immersive industrial design instruction offers advantages in terms of novelty, usability, and enjoyment. It can stimulate students' interest in learning, enhance learning efficiency, and thus significantly improve instructional effectiveness, demonstrating higher educational value.

Previous research in the field of human-animal interaction has captured the multitude of benefits of this relationship on different aspects of human health. Existing limitations for accompanying pets/animals in some public spaces, allergies, and inability to provide adequate care for animals/pets limits the possible benefits of this relationship. However, the increased popularity of augmented reality and virtual reality devices and the introduction of new social behaviors since their utilization offers the opportunity of using such platforms for the realization of virtual animals and investigation of their influences on human perception and behavior. In this paper, one prior experiment is presented, which was designed to provide a better understanding of the requirements of virtual animals in augmented reality as companions. Through these findings, future research directions are identified and discussed.

A growing body of empirical evidence from the cognitive sciences shows that physical experience can enhance cognition in areas that involve spatial thinking. At the same time, virtual environments provide opportunities to engage learners with novel spatial tasks that cannot be achieved in the real world. Yet combining virtual worlds with tangible interfaces to engage spatial cognition is still not a well-explored area. This paper describes the TASC (Tangibles for Augmenting Spatial Cognition) system, which combines movement tracking and tangible objects in order to create a strong sense of embodiment in a virtual environment for spatial puzzle solving, designed to engage perspective taking ability. We describe the motivation, design process, and development of TASC. We also report the results from our user study, showing the participants' positive experiences, linking to future research opportunities.

In this paper, we propose to reproduce drag forces in a virtual underwater environment. To this end, we first compute the drag forces to be exerted on human limbs in a physically correct way. Adopting a pseudo-haptic approach that generates visual discrepancies between the real and virtual limb motions, we compute the extent of drag forces that are applied to the virtual limbs and can be naturally perceived. Through two tests, our drag force simulation method is compared with others. The results show that our method is effective in reproducing the sense of being immersed in water. Our study can be utilized for various types of virtual underwater applications such as scuba diving training and aquatic therapy.

The multi-modal information presentation, integrated into the virtual environment (VE), has potential for stimulating different senses, improving the user's impression of immersion, and increasing the amount of information that is accepted and processed by the user's perception system. The increase of the useful feedback information may reduce the user's cognitive load, thus enhancing the user's efficiency and performance while interacting with VEs. This paper presents our creation of a multi-sensory virtual assembly environment (VAE) and the evaluation of the effects of multi-sensory feedback on the usability. The VAE brings together complex technologies such as constraint-based assembly simulation, optical motion tracking technology, and real-time 3D sound generation technology around a virtual reality workbench and a common software platform. The usability evaluation is in terms of its three attributes: efficiency of use, user satisfaction, and reliability. These are addressed by using task completion times (TCTs), questionnaires, and human performance error rates (HPERs), respectively. Two assembly tasks have been used to perform the experiments, using sixteen participants. The outcomes showed that the multi-sensory feedback could improve the usability. They also indicated that the integrated feedback offered better usability than either feedback used in isolation. Most participants preferred the integrated feedback to either feedback (visual or auditory) or no feedback. The participants' comments demonstrated that nonrealistic or inappropriate feedback had negative effects on the usability, and easily made them feel frustrated. The possible reasons behind the outcomes are also analysed by using a unifying human computer interaction framework. The implications, concluded from the outcomes of this work, can serve as useful guidelines for improving VE system design and implementation.

The rapid advancement of virtual reality (VR) technology has brought many immersive experiences, each designed to transport users into captivating virtual worlds. While these experiences aim to provide a sense of presence and engagement, the factors contributing to a truly immersive experience are often complex and multifaceted. Existing scholarship has predominantly focused on specific aspects of user experience, such as psychological factors (e.g., sense of presence), emotional factors (e.g., enjoyment), or design-related factors (e.g., interface usability). This fragmented approach has impeded a comprehensive understanding of the overall quality of VR experiences. To address this, we propose a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing five essential qualities: immersivity, interactivity, explorability, plausibility, and believability. The framework aims to disentangle the complex, interrelated facets shaping VR experiences for a more systematic evaluation. Immersivity refers to the subjective sense of presence and "being there" in a virtual environment. Interactivity denotes the ability to interact with virtual objects, promoting engagement dynamically. Explorability refers to users' freedom to navigate and discover new elements. Plausibility examines the logical congruence of the virtual environment's rules and behaviors. Finally, believability relates to the world-building and internal coherence of the VR world. This taxonomy provides a structured approach to look at VR experiences holistically, assessing the interplay of these facets to facilitate a more objective, comprehensive evaluation, capturing the multidimensional nature of VR experiences. In summary, our proposed taxonomy marks an essential step toward systematic VR evaluation, providing guidance for researchers and highlighting factors integral to VR quality.

In Augmented Reality (AR), search performance for outdoor tasks is an important metric for evaluating the success of a large number of AR applications. Users must be able to find content quickly, labels and indicators must not be invasive but still clearly noticeable, and the user interface should maximize search performance in a variety of conditions. To address these issues, we have set up a series of experiments to test the influence of virtual characteristics such as color, size, and leader lines on the performance of search tasks and noticeability in both real and simulated environments. We evaluate two primary areas, including 1) the effects of peripheral field of view (FOV) limitations and labeling techniques on target acquisition during outdoor mobile search, and 2) the influence of local characteristics such as color, size, and motion on text labels over dynamic backgrounds. The first experiment showed that limited FOV will severely limit search performance, but that appropriate placement of labels and leaders within the periphery can alleviate this problem without interfering with walking or decreasing user comfort. In the second experiment, we found that different types of motion are more noticeable in optical versus video see-through displays, but that blue coloration is most noticeable in both. Results can aid in designing more effective view management techniques, especially for wider field of view displays.

Virtual reality/augmented reality (VR/AR) bridges the gap between fictitious and physical environments and is widely used in myriad forms. However, conventional rigid VR/AR systems exhibit poor compatibility with human bodies, and immersive experience needs to be extended with haptic stimuli beyond visual or auditory means. Among various solutions for the innovation of body-worn VR/AR systems, the triboelectric nano generators (TENGs) are rising as promising candidates, showing remarkable features and performance such as flexibility, lightweight, self-power, and high sensitivity even under mechanical stimuli of tiny amplitudes. With a wide selection of functional materials and innovative structural designs, TENGs serve as pressure, rotation, and strain sensors for haptic perception covering tactile and kinesthetic actions. By leveraging machine learning and artificial intelligence approaches, TENGs are capable of discriminating complicated movement patterns in applications like remote sensing, wearable robotics control, and human-machine interactions. Based on these unique characteristics, TENGs are expected to offer natural and practical VR/AR experiences. This paper reports the state-of-the-art literature related to wearable triboelectric devices for haptic perception and VR/AR systems, summarizing the fundamental theory, device design, characteristics, and promising applications. In addition, future perspectives and limitations involved in this emerging field are also discussed.

The paper presents an innovative way of conceiving the museum exhibit particularly useful in those territorial contexts in which it is possible to simultaneously show the place of discovery of the exhibit n (contextualizing it through the virtual reproduction of the historical scenario) and the find itself adding to this the possibility of narrating one's own history and characteristics. The entire meta-project is designed for the Pietraroja site in the province of Benevento which would acquire considerable cultural interest thanks to the potential of augmented and mixed reality. The main idea is to use this new technology to involve the user (observer) by rebuilding the environment and the peculiarities of the finds. The perception of the augmented elements will be possible by design a specific application for smartphone that everyone gets in its pocket.

We have all experienced the sense of time slowing down when we are bored or speeding up when we are focused, engaged, or excited about a task. In virtual reality (VR), perception of time can be a key aspect related to flow, immersion, engagement, and ultimately, to overall quality of experience. While several studies have explored changes in time perception using questionnaires, limited studies have attempted to characterize them objectively. In this paper, we propose the use of a multimodal biosensor-embedded VR headset capable of measuring electroencephalography (EEG), electrooculography (EOG), electrocardiography (ECG), and head movement data while the user is immersed in a virtual environment. Eight gamers were recruited to play a commercial action game comprised of puzzle-solving tasks and first-person shooting and combat. After gameplay, ratings were given across multiple dimensions, including (1) the perception of time flowing differently than usual and (2) the gamers losing sense of time. Several features were extracted from the biosignals, ranked based on a two-step feature selection procedure, and then mapped to a predicted time perception rating using a Gaussian process regressor. Top features were found to come from the four signal modalities and the two regressors, one for each time perception scale, were shown to achieve results significantly better than chance. An in-depth analysis of the top features is presented with the hope that the insights can be used to inform the design of more engaging and immersive VR experiences.

This paper presents the development of a wearable Fingertip Haptic Device (FHD) that can provide cutaneous feedback via a Variable Compliance Platform (VCP). The FHD includes an inertial measurement unit, which tracks the motion of the user's finger while its haptic functionality relies on two parameters: pressure in the VCP and its linear displacement towards the fingertip. The combination of these two features results in various conditions of the FHD, which emulate the remote object or surface stiffness properties. Such a device can be used in tele-operation, including virtual reality applications, where rendering the level of stiffness of different physical or virtual materials could provide a more realistic haptic perception to the user. The FHD stiffness representation is characterised in terms of resulting pressure and force applied to the fingertip created through the relationship of the two functional parameters - pressure and displacement of the VCP. The FHD was tested in a series of user studies to assess its potential to create a user perception of the object's variable stiffness. The viability of the FHD as a haptic device has been further confirmed by interfacing the users with a virtual environment. The developed virtual environment task required the users to follow a virtual path, identify objects of different hardness on the path and navigate away from "no-go" zones. The task was performed with and without the use of the variable compliance on the FHD. The results showed improved performance with the presence of the variable compliance provided by the FHD in all assessed categories and particularly in the ability to identify correctly between objects of different hardness.

Driving a power wheelchair is a difficult and complex visual-cognitive task. As a result, some people with visual and/or cognitive disabilities cannot access the benefits of a power wheelchair because their impairments prevent them from driving safely. In order to improve their access to mobility, we have previously designed a semi-autonomous assistive wheelchair system which progressively corrects the trajectory as the user manually drives the wheelchair and smoothly avoids obstacles. Developing and testing such systems for wheelchair driving assistance requires a significant amount of material resources and clinician time. With Virtual Reality technology, prototypes can be developed and tested in a risk-free and highly flexible Virtual Environment before equipping and testing a physical prototype. Additionally, users can "virtually" test and train more easily during the development process. In this paper, we introduce a power wheelchair driving simulator allowing the user to navigate with a standard wheelchair in an immersive 3D Virtual Environment. The simulation framework is designed to be flexible so that we can use different control inputs. In order to validate the framework, we first performed tests on the simulator with able-bodied participants during which the user's Quality of Experience (QoE) was assessed through a set of questionnaires. Results show that the simulator is a promising tool for future works as it generates a good sense of presence and requires rather low cognitive effort from users.

We introduce PoCoPo, the first handheld pin-based shape display that can render various 2.5D shapes in hand in realtime. We designed the display small enough for a user to hold it in hand and carry it around, thereby enhancing the haptic experiences in a virtual environment. PoCoPo has 18 motor-driven pins on both sides of a cuboid, providing the sensation of skin contact on the user's palm and fingers. We conducted two user studies to understand the capability of PoCoPo. The first study showed that the participants were generally successful in distinguishing the shapes rendered by PoCoPo with an average success rate of 88.5%. In the second study, we investigated the acceptable visual size of a virtual object when PoCoPo rendered a physical object of a certain size. The result led to a better understanding of the acceptable differences between the perceptions of visual size and haptic size.

This study analyzes the impact of social presence on perceived security and intention in virtual shopping malls. Following the conceptual model of social presence proposed by Hassanein and Head (2007), this study discusses social presence in a virtual environment as a complex multidimensional construct characterized by directed relationships among a set of uni-dimensional constructs. Given the rising importance of security, this study investigates the influence of social presence on perceived security in virtual activities. A prototype of the virtual shopping mall is designed as an experimental medium for which the user interface consists of both 3D graphics and an avatar. Valid questionnaires were gathered from student samples, and hypotheses were then tested to measure this set of constructs and fit a series of structural equation models that test Hassanein and Head's (2007) theory. The proposed model is strongly supported, and it provides additional insight into the effect and consequences of social presence. The results of the model show that social presence is a key behavioral antecedent to using virtual malls and user perception of security is a focal feature of user attitude. The results further suggest that perceived social presence can be a key factor of the virtual shopping activities by enhancing user perception of security and behavioral attitude in virtual malls. This study provides a more intensive view of virtual reality users and is an important step toward a better understanding of user behaviors in virtual environments. Z8 1

Virtual reality has shown great potential in many fields, especially in business and psychology. By immersing someone in a new computer-generated reality, it is possible to create realistic, safe, and controllable simulations for research and training, as well as new three-dimensional-enriched consumer experiences and services. Most of these environments, especially in the metaverse, rely on virtual representations of people called avatars. The design and non-verbal behaviors of these avatars must be carefully crafted to provide a realistic and truly immersive experience. This paper aims to understand how avatar nonverbal behaviors (i.e., body posture, facial expression, and head movement) are perceived by users immersed in a virtual reality context, a very common situation encountered in many simulations and especially during training. Therefore, the first objective of this study is to validate, through an experiment with 125 participants, how the audience's levels of emotional valence and arousal are perceived in virtual reality. Based on these results, a library of audience non-verbal behaviors corresponding to different arousal and valence levels is now available for future applications. The experiment also examines the benefits of using low-end versus high-end virtual reality headsets, and photo-realistic versus cartoon avatars. The results have implications for the design of realistic, challenging, and interactive virtual audiences.

Walking is only possible within immersive virtual environments that fit inside the boundaries of the user's physical work space. To reduce the severity of the restrictions imposed by limited physical area, we introduce" impossible spaces," a new design mechanic for virtual environments that wish to maximize the size of the virtual environment that can be explored with natural locomotion. Such environments make use of self-overlapping architectural layouts,effectively compressing comparatively large interior environments into smaller physical areas. We conducted two formal user studies to explore the perception and experience of impossible spaces. In the first experiment,we showed that reasonably small virtual rooms may overlap by as much as 56% before users begin to detect that they are in an impossible space,and that the larger virtual rooms that expanded to maximally fill our available 9.14m x 9.14 m workspace may overlap by up to 31%. Our results also demonstrate that users perceive distances to objects in adjacent overlapping rooms as if the overall space was uncompressed, even at overlap levels that were overtly noticeable. In our second experiment, we combined several well-known redirection techniques to string together a chain of impossible spaces in an expansive outdoor scene. We then conducted an exploratory analysis of users' verbal feedback during exploration, which indicated that impossible spaces provide an even more powerful illusion when users are naive to the manipulation.

Locomotion, the most basic interaction in Virtual Environments (VE), enables users to move around the virtual world. Locomotion in Virtual Reality (VR) is a problem which has not been solved completely since existing techniques have a specific set of requirements and limitations. In addition, the uncertainty about the impact that virtual cues have on users perception complicates the development of better locomotion interfaces. A broadly applicable locomotion technique that is easy to use and addresses the issues of presence, cybersickness and fatigue has yet to be developed. Though optical flow and vestibular cues are dominant in navigation, other cues such as auditory, arm feedback, wind, etc. play a role. The proposed research aims to evaluate and improve upon a set of locomotion techniques for different modes of locomotion in virtual scenarios, as well as the transitions between them. The outcome measures of the evaluations of the different scenarios are usefulness for spatial orientation, presence, fatigue, cybersickness and user preference. The envisioned contribution of my thesis is research towards the design of a locomotion technique that is easy to use and addresses the shortcomings of current implementations.

Despite the potential of spatial displays for supporting teachers' classroom orchestration through real-time classroom analytics, the process to design these displays is a challenging and under-explored topic in the learning analytics (LA) community. This paper proposes a mid-fidelity Virtual Prototyping method (VPM), which involves simulating a classroom environment and candidate designs in virtual space to address these challenges. VPM allows for rapid prototyping of spatial features, requires no specialized hardware, and enables teams to conduct remote evaluation sessions. We report observations and findings from an initial exploration with five potential users through a design process utilizing VPM to validate designs for an AR-based spatial display in the context of middle-school orchestration tools. We found that designs created using virtual prototyping sufficiently conveyed a sense of three-dimensionality to address subtle design issues like occlusion and depth perception. We discuss the opportunities and limitations of applying virtual prototyping, particularly its potential to allow for more robust co-design with stakeholders earlier in the design process.

In the past decade, remarkable progress has been made in the domain of augmented reality/virtual reality (AR/VR). The need for realistic and immersive augmentation has propelled the development of haptics interfaces-enabled AR/VR. The haptics interfaces facilitate direct interaction and manipulation with both real and virtual objects, thus augmenting the perception and experiences of the users. The level of augmentation can be significantly improved by thermal stimulation or sensing, which facilitates a higher degree of object identification and discrimination. This review discusses the thermal technology-enabled augmented reality and summarizes the recent progress in the development of different thermal technology such as thermal haptics including thermo-resistive heater and Peltier devices, thermal sensors including resistive, pyroelectric, and thermoelectric sensors, which can be utilized to improve the realism of augmentation. The fundamental mechanism, design strategies, and the rational guidelines for the adoption of these technologies in AR/VR is explicitly discussed. The conclusion provides an outlook on the existing challenges and outlines the future roadmap for the realization of next-generation thermo-haptics enabled augmented reality.

Human body augmentation makes it possible to obtain new abilities that we cannot achieve with our actual bodies. A projected virtual hand interface is a promising approach for body augmentation because it can extend a user's reach in daily life without the need to wear a device. Although users can manipulate a projected virtual hand as if it were their own hand and can interact with distant objects through it, they cannot feel the sensation of touch when the projected virtual hand is overlaid on a real object. In this paper, we propose a novel pseudo-haptic feedback framework to provide users with the tactile texture of objects without the use of haptic devices. We designed three types of visual effects that produce unevenness, slipperiness, and softness. The experimental results indicate that the proposed visual effects can lead users to feel the intended tactile sensation. Furthermore, the visual effects provide users with tactile sensations with three to five levels of intensity without producing a strange feeling.

Decision-making activities affect to a larger extent the quality, cost, time and success of a product. However, there are fewer alternatives when it comes to supporting in aesthetic evaluation during the product design stages. Therefore, is proposed a Crowdsourcing Augmented Reality Environment (CARE) that use the user's mobile devices for getting the feedback from the evaluation of products using a Semantic Differential (SD) that consider the user's context-light interaction in real time. Finally, two products were evaluated using CARE vs. the real products under different lighting and surrounding conditions. Obtaining a similar measure of products aesthetic perception between CARE and the real product, with slight variations. Additionally, an evaluation pattern among users was recognizable in the same context with slight variations using different lighting setup, that was similarly recreated with CARE.

As some music artists begin to explore virtual reality (VR) as a medium for their music videos, it was found challenging to direct people's attention using traditional film techniques. These must, therefore, be innovative or alternative methods established. To evaluate the effectiveness of attention cues and their correlation of eliciting a sense of presence, a music video was created in a virtual environment (VE). Two design iterations were completed. The first investigated the size, colour, and movement pattern of the visual cues and the second examined if the cue was perceived as a part of the virtual world. It was found that the cue should have a vibrant yet not necessarily contrasting colour, depending on the background (here pink on purple), and have animate motion, giving a more coherent perception the world. This study investigated the user's level of presence experiencing the music video in VR, compared to a smartphone. The results demonstrate that the feeling of presence in the VR is significantly higher.

Finger wearable haptic devices enrich virtual reality experiences by offering haptic feedback corresponding to the virtual environment. However, despite the effectiveness of current finger wearable haptic devices in delivering haptic feedback, many are often constrained in their ability to provide force feedback across a diverse range of directions or to sustain it. Therefore, we present AirPush, a finger wearable haptic device capable of generating continuously adjustable force feedback in multiple directions using compressed air. To evaluate its usability, we conducted a technical evaluation and four user studies: (1) we obtained the user's perceptual thresholds of angles under different directions on horizontal and vertical planes, (2) in perception studies, we found that users can identify five different magnitudes of force and eight different motion when using AirPush, and (3) using it in VR applications, we confirmed that users felt more realistic and immersed when using AirPush than the HTC VIVE Controller or AirPush with a fixed nozzle.

This research has been experimented on our previous literature review. Technological advancement has prevailed in the modern era from the 20(th) century. Artificial intelligence and virtual worlds have been created for rapid technological development. This paper is aimed at exploring the effect of virtual reality as a pedagogical tool for enhancing experiential learning among undergraduate students. Considering this, it was a mixed-methods study following the design of sequential exploratory-which includes qualitative followed by quantitative part. The targeted population was undergraduate students taking education programs from Public Sector Universities of Sindh. For the qualitative part, the sample of eight undergraduate students was interviewed for exploring their perceptions about virtual reality for enhancing experiential learning. The interviewed data were thematically analyzed, which revealed seven themes. For the quantitative part, emerged seven themes were used as constructs for developing the questionnaire. It was then used for quantitative data collection having excellent reliability. A sample of 80 students was taken, and data were collected by self-administration. The quantitative data were analyzed by descriptive as well as inferential statistics. Hence, the results found a statistically significant effect of virtual reality for enhancing experiential learning. However, user-friendliness ensures the applicability of virtual reality. Thus, it concluded that the implementation of virtual reality influences experiential learning enhancement. However, the implementation of virtual reality still depends upon the user-friendly nature of technology and virtual reality.

Although AR technology has been largely dominated by visual media, a number of AR tools using both visual and auditory feedback have been developed specifically to assist people with low vision or blindness - an application domain that we term Augmented Reality for Visual Impairment (AR4VI). We describe two AR4VI tools developed at Smith-Kettlewell, as well as a number of pre-existing examples. We emphasize that AR4VI is a powerful tool with the potential to remove or significantly reduce a range of accessibility barriers. Rather than being restricted to use by people with visual impairments, AR4VI is a compelling universal design approach offering benefits for mainstream applications as well.

Virtual reality (VR) has evolved substantially beyond its initial remit of gaming and entertainment, catalyzed by advancements such as improved screen resolutions and more accessible devices. Among various interaction techniques introduced to VR, eye-tracking stands out as a pivotal development. It not only augments immersion but offers a nuanced insight into user behavior and attention. This precision in capturing gaze direction has made eye-tracking instrumental for applications far beyond mere interaction, influencing areas like medical diagnostics, neuroscientific research, educational interventions, and architectural design, to name a few. Though eye-tracking's integration into VR has been acknowledged in prior reviews, its true depth, spanning the intricacies of its deployment to its broader ramifications across diverse sectors, has been sparsely explored. This survey undertakes that endeavor, offering a comprehensive overview of eye-tracking's state of the art within the VR landscape. We delve into its technological nuances, its pivotal role in modern VR applications, and its transformative impact on domains ranging from medicine and neuroscience to marketing and education. Through this exploration, we aim to present a cohesive understanding of the current capabilities, challenges, and future potential of eye-tracking in VR, underscoring its significance and the novelty of our contribution.

Most of the wearable hand kinesthetic (force) feedback systems have only been evaluated from a physical perspective, i.e., motion measurement, force transmission, system stability, etc. However, by taking this approach, we cannot gather sufficient data to evaluate the performance of wearable kinesthetic feedback systems as haptic devices. In this paper, we evaluated the wearable hand kinesthetic feedback system developed in our laboratory from psychophysical and user experience (UX) perspectives. We designed the experiments considering the characteristics of our wearable hand system. For psychophysical evaluation, ten subjects participated in force detection, discrimination, and identification experiments. The force detection threshold of our system was better than those of the commercialized haptic systems, and discrimination threshold was similar with the human perception threshold. In the identification experiment, the subjects could distinguish the size and shape of virtual objects over 2.5 levels. For UX evaluation, 15 subjects answered a questionnaire after conducting a task using our wearable hand system in laboratory environment. The UX results verified that the subjects were satisfied with our system by giving a score of 5.87 out of 7 points. It also concluded that our system can provide a good VR experience to users by achieving over 5.5 points in ease of use, learnability, and utilitarian value. Z8 0

Immersive knowledge spaces like museums or cultural sites are often explored by traversing pre-defined paths that are curated to unfold a specific educational narrative. To support this type of guided exploration in VR, we present a semi-automated, handsfree path traversal technique based on teleportation that features a slow-paced interaction workflow targeted at fostering knowledge acquisition and maintaining spatial awareness. In an empirical user study with 34 participants, we evaluated two variations of our technique, differing in the presence or absence of intermediate teleportation points between the main points of interest along the route. While visiting additional intermediate points was objectively less efficient, our results indicate significant benefits of this approach regarding the user's spatial awareness and perception of interface dependability. However, the user's perception of flow, presence, attractiveness, perspicuity, and stimulation did not differ significantly. The overall positive reception of our approach encourages further research into semi-automated locomotion based on teleportation and provides initial insights into the design space of successful techniques in this domain.

THEMIS-AR is an augmented reality (AR) app designed for mobile devices that was developed to assist first responders on disaster relief operations, which a very demanding context for users, regarding both the physical and the cognitive and emotional demands. In fact, the specificity of the usage environment imposes special care in addressing the interaction of the users with the system, regarding both the mobile devices technical characteristics and the workload. The paper provides a brief description of the THEMIS-AR architecture and features, focusing on the assessment of a concept demonstrator developed based on the UCD cycle (i.e., context of use characterization, requirements definition, solution implementation, and testing and validation). The usability testing setup and script adopted while performing field tests are described and the results obtained, namely regarding the application of the User Experience Questionnaire to benchmark the app evaluation in comparison with a set of previous evaluations made with this methodology. These results were compared with the user perceptions collected using a final questionnaire namely based on the System Usability Scale. The main findings resulting from this initial set of users are summarized and presented the way ahead for this component of the THEMIS project.

Despite fast technological developments in virtual reality (VR), methodologies and guidelines for evaluating the design of virtual environments (VEs) are lacking. The theory of perceptual opportunities (POs) has previously been proposed as a basis of such a design methodology. This paper presents an empirical study investigating the effect of representation of POs on users' behavior in VEs. The effects of both direction and movement of attractor on choice of objects in a simple VE were studied. Results showed that vertical static attractors were chosen least frequently. Furthermore, there was an effect of direction for static attractors in favor of the take-off direction. Implications for VE design in the framework of POs are discussed. Z8 0

The visual design of virtual agents presents developers with a very large number of choices. We conducted a series of studies using Amazon's Mechanical Turk that demonstrate that there are no design universals for characters, optimal design of character proportion and rendering style depends on the task domain and user characteristics. Specifically, we found these adjustments to an agent's appearance directly effected how users rated it based on whether it was discussing social or medical content. The results of this research aim to help create visual guidelines for the development of domain specific virtual agents.

In this paper we present a new implementation of the virtual reality workstation concept. Based on an application originally developed for immersive virtual environments such as CAVES, V-Scope allows clinicians and researchers to investigate their three dimensional (3D) imaging data with truly 3D views and interactions. This greatly improves the understanding of the data, and allows the efficient measurement of volumes and distances in a way that was previously not possible.

Guided by previous research on the role of embodiment in virtual environments, this study aimed to investigate the potential effects of using human-like (compared to robotic) virtual hands on work performances in the context of virtual reality (VR)-based teleoperation of high-risk machinery. A 2 x 2 mixed factorial design experiment (N = 74), with the virtual hand representation as a within-subjects factor (robotic vs. human-like virtual hands) and the risk of danger as a between-subjects factor (low vs. high), was conducted to examine the effects of virtual hand representations (i.e., human-likeness) on perceived body ownership (i.e., embodiment), risk perception, intention to work using the teleoperator, and work performance (i.e., the number of successful task completions). In addition, the moderating effects of the risk of danger on the relationship between perceived body ownership and risk perception were explored. Results showed that the enhancement of perceived body ownership in VR-based teleoperation, induced by the use of human-like hands, increased the risk perception and degraded workers' task performances in the execution of high-risk tasks. Further implications of the findings were discussed. Z8 0

The visual perception of augmented reality (AR) geovisualization is significantly different from traditional controllable 2D and 3D visualization. In this study, we extended the rendering styles of color variables to include natural material color (NMC) and illuminating material color (IMC) and extended the size to include linear size (LS) and angular size (AS). Outdoor AR geovisualization user experiments were conducted, examining the guidance characteristics of five static variables (NMC, IMC, shape, AS, LS) and two dynamic variables (vibration, flicker). The results showed that the two dynamic variables provided the highest guidance, and among all the static variables, the order of guidance was shape, IMC, AS, NMC, and finally LS. This is a new finding that is different from the color, size, and shape guidance order in 2D visualization and the color, shape, and size order in 3D visualization. The results could be utilized to guide the selection of visual variables for symbol design in AR geovisualization.

Nowadays, the use of technology to improve teaching and learning experiences in the classroom has been promoted. One of these technologies is augmented reality, which allows overlaying layers of virtual information on real scene with the aim of increasing the perception that user has of reality. Augmented reality has proved to offer several advantages in the educational context, i. e. increasing learning engagement and increasing understanding of some topics, especially when spatial skills are involved. Contents deployed in an augmented reality application are of two types, static, i. e. text, or dynamic, i. e. animations. As far as we know no research project has assessed how the type of content, static or dynamic, can affect the student learning perception and performance in augmented reality applications. In this article the development and evaluation of an augmented reality application using static and dynamic content is described. In order to determine how the type of content affects the learning perception and performance of the student, two experimental designs in which the student interact with the application, using static and dynamic contents, for learning topics related with an electronic fundamentals course was performed.

The metaverse, which in essence interconnects ecosystems and channels (e.g. Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality, and Internet of Things), is challenging, not only in terms of system design, but also, self-efficacy and technology acceptance. One of the challenges is being lost in immersiveness, if the navigation is absent or not well-structured, especially if the story is long. Hence, this paper has investigated students' readiness in the absence of the explicit navigation toolbar, in lieu of the implicit navigational tool, i.e., the story. An immersive educational gamified AR game with two missions has been developed to test the hypothesis. Target users are children 4 to 6 years old. The significance lies in: a) identifying user perceptions towards the AR-gamified story-navigated prototype based on User Experience qualities and Usability Heuristics; b) mapping of User Experience qualities and Usability Heuristics for the preliminary study of cognitive load in immersive learning environments; c) assessing the effectiveness of the story as anchor to shaping mental models, and AR in balancing 3 types of cognition; and d) implications to the design of computational thinking-human-computer interaction scaffolds for immersive AR learning environments. Possibly, with feedback-driven weighted criteria, systems can dynamically assemble ontological changes in scenarios and objects, balance or distribute embodied/embedded cognitive load, personalize paths and mediate flow.

Interactive digital narrative (IDN) is a form of expression by a computer-based system with broad potential for virtual reality (VR) application. This study investigates the experience factors to clarify what it is like to shape the values of individuals and groups through VR storytelling. An IDN experience matrix is proposed for the design and evaluation of VR storytelling. This approach is based on the communication theory to map a bottom-to-up 3x3 structure, crossing the design process and perception level. Its usefulness was demonstrated by investigating 31 participants with a digital media background. The results show that the approach could be applied to understanding the cognitive experience of stories in VR and provides designers with an idea of how to improve the effect of shaping values. In addition, the matrix will be validated in more testing and evaluating of VR works in further study.

Non-photorealistically rendered (NPR) immersive virtual environments (IVEs) can facilitate conceptual design in architecture by enabling preliminary design sketches to be previewed and experienced at full scale, from a first-person perspective. However, it is critical to ensure the accurate spatial perception of the represented information, and many studies have shown that people typically underestimate distances in most IVEs, regardless of rendering style. In previous work we have found that while people tend to judge distances more accurately in an IVE that is a high-fidelity replica of their concurrently occupied real environment than in an IVE that it is a photorealistic representation of a real place that they've never been to, significant distance estimation errors re-emerge when the replica environment is represented in a NPR style. We have also previously found that distance estimation accuracy can be improved, in photo-realistically rendered novel virtual environments, when people are given a fully tracked, high fidelity first person avatar self-embodiment. In this paper we report the results of an experiment that seeks to determine whether providing users with a high-fidelity avatar self-embodiment in a NPR virtual replica environment will enable them to perceive the 3D spatial layout of that environment more accurately. We find that users who are given a first person avatar in an NPR replica environment judge distances more accurately than do users who experience the NPR replica room without an embodiment, but not as accurately as users whose distance judgments are made in a photorealistically rendered virtual replica room. Our results provide a partial solution to the problem of facilitating accurate distance perception in NPR virtual environments, while supporting and expanding the scope of previous findings that giving people a realistic avatar self-embodiment in an IVE can help them to interpret what they see through an HMD in a way that is more similar to how they would interpret a corresponding visual stimulus in the real world.

As typical games become interactive 3D games, users may feel fatigued and may have difficulty manipulating virtual objects with current interactive 3D technologies such as Nintendo Wii, MS Kinect and the PS3 3D display. In this paper, we analyze factors about interaction fatigue and manipulation difficulty. For an analysis on factors, we categorize various interactions into two types of interaction scenarios: object manipulation and 3D UI selection. From our analysis, we presented the design factors related to finger extension motion for grasping, early extension for grasping/selection, haptic sensation, erroneous trials, and head motion for 3D perception. Game developers can apply induced design factors to their interactive 3D game contents.

It has been widely demonstrated that haptic interaction can enrich the sense of copresence of distributed users and improve their performance in collaborative virtual environments (CVEs). However, the influence of network traffic on haptic collaboration, particularly packet loss in haptic data streams, is still largely unknown. In order to investigate this effect, we designed and conducted a series of experiments on a simulated lossy network. First, a single-user interactive task was designed to estimate the just-noticeable packet loss threshold in terms of the length of burst loss (LBL). Second, a CVE was developed in which two users are required to work together on a goal-directed task through haptic collaboration. Experiments were performed to evaluate the users' task performance at different packet loss rates and their perception using subjective measurements. Finally, the effect of packet loss combined with network latency was investigated. The findings are: (1) the threshold LBL value for haptic discontinuity to become noticeable is 60.18 ms; (2) haptic collaboration performance is sensitive to packet loss rate; and (3) while the combined effect of packet loss and communication delay adversely affects collaborative haptic interactions, the influence due to packet loss rate is dominant when the delay is below a certain threshold. These results can serve as a guiding reference for the design and development of virtual telepresence systems with rich haptic collaborations.

Designers of virtual agents have a combinatorically large space of choices for the look and behavior of their characters. We conducted two between-subjects studies to explore the systematic manipulation of animation quality, speech quality, rendering style, and simulated empathy, and its impact on perceptions of virtual agents in terms of naturalness, engagement, trust, credibility, and persuasion within a health counseling domain. In the first study, animation was varied between manually created, procedural, or no animations; voice quality was varied between recorded audio and synthetic speech; and rendering style was varied between realistic and toon-shaded. In the second study, simulated empathy of the agent was varied between no empathy, verbal-only empathic responses, and full empathy involving verbal, facial, and immediacy feedback. Results show that natural animations and recorded voice are more appropriate for the agent's general acceptance, trust, credibility, and appropriateness for the task. However, for a brief health counseling task, animation might actually be distracting from the persuasive message, with the highest levels of persuasion found when the amount of agent animation is minimized. Further, consistent and high levels of empathy improve agent perception but may interfere with forming a trusting bond with the agent.

Commercial streets play an essential role in urban public life, and their appearance constitutes an important visual attraction, which can attract people to form high-quality and active public spaces. However, in the traditional design analysis methods, limited by the existing evaluation tools, the key content of visual attractiveness analysis under dynamic conditions has rarely been paying attention to. Given this, this research adopts both objectivity and real-time eye movement perception technology to construct an evaluation method based on dynamic visual attractiveness-through the application of virtual reality technology to construct a virtual scene of a typical commercial street and detect the user's actions in it Eye movement at a time and physiological parameters such as the number of fixation points, fixation duration, and pupil diameter changes.This paper takes the main commercial street in Huanggaihu Town in Hubei Province of China as an example to analyze the visual attraction caused by different design methods.Therefore, from the four aspects of material, shape, line, and vegetation, design suggestions for the reasonable distribution of visual attractiveness in the commercial street space design are proposed to provide useful enlightenment for the vast towns' commercial street space design.

Recent developments in virtual environment applications allow users to interact with three-dimensional (3D) objects in virtual environments. As interaction with 3D objects in virtual environments becomes more established, it is important to investigate user performance with such interaction techniques within a specific task. This study investigated two interaction modes, direct and indirect, depending on how the users interacted with the 3D objects, by measuring the accuracy of egocentric distance estimation in a stereoscopic environment. Fourteen participants were recruited to perform an acquisition task with both direct pointing and indirect cursor techniques at three egocentric distances and three task difficulty levels. The accuracy of the egocentric distance estimation, throughput, and task completion time were analyzed for each interaction technique. The indirect cursor technique was found to be more accurate than the direct pointing one. On the other hand, a higher throughput was observed with the direct pointing technique than with the indirect cursor technique. However, there were no significant differences in task completion time between the two interaction techniques. The results also showed accuracy to be higher at the greatest distance (150 cm from the participant) than at the closer distances of 90 cm and 120 cm. Furthermore, the difficulty of the task also significantly affected the accuracy, with accuracy lower in the highest difficulty condition than in the medium and low difficulty conditions. The findings of this study contribute to the understanding of user-interaction techniques in a stereoscopic environment. Furthermore, developers of virtual environments may refer to these findings in designing effective user interactions, especially those in which performance relies on accuracy. Z8 0

The perception of distance is a complex process that often involves sensory information beyond that of just vision. In this work, we investigated if depth perception based on auditory information can be calibrated, a process by which perceptual accuracy of depth judgments can be improved by providing feedback and then performing corrective actions. We further investigated if perceptual learning through carryover effects of calibration occurs in different levels of a virtual environment's visibility based on different levels of virtual lighting. Users performed an auditory depth judgment task over several trials in which they walked where they perceived an aural sound to be, yielding absolute estimates of perceived distance. This task was performed in three sequential phases: pretest, calibration, posttest. Feedback on the perceptual accuracy of distance estimates was only provided in the calibration phase, allowing to study the calibration of auditory depth perception. We employed a 2 (Visibility of virtual environment) x 3 (Phase) x 5 (Target Distance) multi-factorial design, manipulating the phase and target distance as within-subjects factors, and the visibility of the virtual environment as a between-subjects factor. Our results revealed that users generally tend to underestimate aurally perceived distances in VR similar to the distance compression effects that commonly occur in visual distance perception in VR. We found that auditory depth estimates, obtained using an absolute measure, can be calibrated to become more accurate through feedback and corrective action. In terms of environment visibility, we find that environments visible enough to reveal their extent may contain visual information that users attune to in scaling aurally perceived depth.

Virtual Reality (VR) technology has become a powerful tool for Second Language (L2) learning, but few studies have explored the factors influencing learners' experiences and intentions, particularly in developing countries like India. The purpose of the study is to reveal both the reception of VR technology for L2 learning in India and the factors that affect this reception process. The present study combines factors based on the Diffusion of Innovations (DOI) theory, Flow theory, Theory of Planned behavior (TPB), and Technology acceptance theory (TAM) to scrutinize the learners' experiences regarding the potential benefits virtual technology offers for language learning. The study used a quantitative research design along with descriptive and inferential statistics to validate the proposed model. Data collected from 200 learners via an online questionnaire was analysed using SPSS v26 to answer the research questions formulated regarding which factors influenced learners' behavioral intention to use VR technology. Based on the findings, it was concluded that service compatibility, observability, trialability, and spatial presence influenced learners' perceptions of relative ease and advantage of language learning and their flow experiences positively and significantly, while perceived service complexity influenced learners' perceptions negatively. Moreover, the behavioral intention to embrace VR technology was positively and significantly influenced by the learners' perceived relative advantage and flow experience. The implications of the results were discussed.

Recently, Virtual Environments (VE) are increasingly used as settings for design and research. Using VE to visualize ideas from the initial steps of design, the architect is challenged to deal with perception of space, solid and void, without translations to and from a two dimensional media. The goal of our studies was to identify how designers use and communicate early design ideas by using immersive three-dimensional (3D) VEs and how they describe 3D volumes using a different media. A series of experiments were undertaken, including navigation- and perception-tasks, designing in IVE, transcription of design, remote communication between design partners and controlled observations. We explored initial intentions of 3D-immersive design schemes, textual descriptions and collaborations within IVE. We discuss frameworks and factors influencing how architectural students communicate their proposals in an immersive Virtual Environment Design Studio, and how this approach of design studio enables to understand volumes and spatial relationships.

Numerous studies have investigated proxemics in the context of human-robot interactions, but little is known about whether these insights can be applied to human-drone interactions (HDI). As drones become more common in social settings, it is crucial to ensure they navigate in a socially acceptable and human-friendly way. Understanding how individuals position themselves around drones is vital to promote user well-being and drones' social acceptance. However, real-world constraints and risks associated with drones flying in close proximity to participants have limited research in this field. Virtual reality is a promising alternative for investigating HDI, as prior research suggests. This paper presents a proxemic user study (N = 45) in virtual reality, examining how drone height and framing influence participants' proxemic preferences. The study also explores participants' perceptions of social drones and their vision for the future of flying robots. Our findings show that drone height significantly impacts participants' preferred interpersonal distance, while framing had no significant effect. Thoughts on how participants envision social drones (e.g., interaction, design, applications) reveal interpersonal differences but also shows overall consistency over time. While the study demonstrates the value of using virtual reality for HDI experiments, further research is necessary to determine the generalizability of our findings to real-world HDI scenarios.

We design and develop a new shared Augmented Reality (AR) workspace for Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), which establishes a bi-directional communication between human agents and robots. In a prototype system, the shared AR workspace enables a shared perception, so that a physical robot not only perceives the virtual elements in its own view but also infers the utility of the human agent-the cost needed to perceive and interact in AR-by sensing the human agent's gaze and pose. Such a new HRI design also affords a shared manipulation, wherein the physical robot can control and alter virtual objects in AR as an active agent; crucially, a robot can proactively interact with human agents, instead of purely passively executing received commands. In experiments, we design a resource collection game that qualitatively demonstrates how a robot perceives, processes, and manipulates in AR and quantitatively evaluates the efficacy of HRI using the shared AR workspace. We further discuss how the system can potentially benefit future HRI studies that are otherwise challenging.

As Virtual Reality (VR) devices become more accessible, a multitude of VR applications engage users in highly immersive virtual environments that feature realistic graphics, real-life scenarios, and self-avatars. Many of these simulations require users to make spontaneous affordance judgments such as stepping over obstacles, passing through gaps, etc. which are shown to be affected by the nature of our self-representation in the virtual world. As the technology for creating self-avatars becomes more widely available, it is important to explore how various affordance judgments are affected by the presence of self-avatars. In this work, we investigate the effects of body-scaled self-avatars on the affordance of passability in a natural setting. We implemented a gender-matched body-scaled self-avatar using HTC Vive trackers and evaluated how passability judgments for a sliding doorway in VR, with and without an avatar, compared to the real world judgments. The results suggest that passability judgments are more conservative in VR as compared to the real world. However, the presence of a self-avatar does not significantly affect passability judgments made in VR. This does not align with previous findings which show that having a self-avatar improves judgments and estimates.

People with cognitive disabilities are often socially excluded. We propose a system based on Virtual and Augmented Reality that has the potential to act as an educational and support tool in everyday tasks for people with cognitive disabilities. Our solution consists of two components: the first that enables users to train for several essential quotidian activities and the second that is meant to offer real time guidance feedback for immediate support. In order to illustrate the functionality of our proposed system, we chose to train and support navigation skills. Thus, we conducted a preliminary study on people with Down Syndrome (DS) based on a navigation task. Our experiment was aimed at evaluating the visual and spatial perception of people with DS when interacting with different elements of our system. We provide a preliminary evaluation that illustrates how people with DS perceive different landmarks and types of visual feedback, in static images and videos. Although we focused our study on people with DS, people with different cognitive disabilities could also benefit from the features of our solution. This analysis is mandatory in the design of a virtual intelligent system with several functionalities that aims at helping disabled people in developing basic knowledge in every day tasks.

With advances in Virtual Reality (VR) technology, user expectation for a near-perfect experience is also increasing. The push for a wider field-of-view can increase the challenges of correcting lens distortion. Past studies on imperfect VR experiences have focused on motion sickness provoked by vection-inducing VR stimuli and discomfort due to mismatches in accommodation and binocular convergence. Disorientation and discomfort due to unintended optical flow induced by lens distortion, referred to as dynamic distortion (DD), has, to date, received little attention. This study examines and models the effects of DD during head rotations with various fixed gazes stabilized by vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). Increases in DD levels comparable to lens parameters from poorly designed commercial VR lenses significantly increase discomfort scores of viewers in relation to disorientation, dizziness, and eye strain. Cross-validated results indicate that the model is able to predict significant differences in subjective scores resulting from different commercial VR lenses and these predictions correlated with empirical data. The present work provides new insights to understand symptoms of discomfort in VR during user interactions with static world-locked / space-stabilized scenes and contributes to the design of discomfort-free VR headset lenses.

Recent research indicates that users consistently underestimate depth judgments to Augmented Reality (AR) graphics when viewed through optical see-through displays. However, to our knowledge, little work has examined how AR graphics may affect depth judgments of real world objects that have been overlaid or annotated with AR graphics. This study explores whether AR graphics have directional effects on users' depth perception of real-world objects. Participants were shown an initial target location and were then asked to indicate when a moving target was perceived to be at the previously specified target location. Each participant experienced three different display conditions: no AR visual display (control), a conformal AR graphic overlaid on the pedestrian via head-up display (HUD), and the same graphic presented on a tablet physically located on the pedestrian. The judged distance from the correct location was recorded, and after each trial, participants' confidence in determining the correct distance was captured. Across all conditions, participants underestimated the distance of the physical object. Greater variability was observed in the accuracy of distance judgments under the AR HUD condition relative to the other two display conditions. In addition, participant confidence levels were significantly lower in the AR HUD condition.

Children experience new forms of harassment in Social Virtual Reality (VR), often inaccessible to parental oversight. We aimed to understand how an artificial intelligent moderator safeguarding children from harassment in social VR is perceived by children and parents, by introducing "Big Buddy", a Wizard-of-Oz embodied AI-moderator. 43 children (aged 8-16) played a tower-block-construction game in a simulated Social VR classroom where fictitious competitors disrupted their game and, in experimental conditions where present, Big Buddy intervened. We measured children's perceptions after the disruptions, towards Big Buddy, and the moderation actions it took. Children felt significantly less sad and safer when Big Buddy suspended the saboteur. Parents (n=17) noted Big Buddy's usefulness and felt reassured but would remain in the supervision loop. We present the first empirical research of a VR-embodied AI-moderator with children's and parents' perspectives, and propose design directions for embodied AI-moderators in Social VR.

Accurately conveying brightness information and improving the reducibility of the perceived vi-sual scene are important aspects of the efforts to promote the application of virtual reality (VR) in light environment research. In this study, brightness perception threshold (BPT) experiments with controlled, repeatable conditions were conducted in equivalent real and VR environments using the minimum change method. The experiments were conducted with the luminance, shape, size, and position of the light-emitting surfaces as variables, using 20 distinct surface forms. After 28 participants finished the assessment, the experimental data were analyzed using SPSS. The analysis shows that the initial luminance, shape, and size all have significant influence on the BPT in both real and VR environments, and the influence rules are consistent. The effect of the posi-tions of the light-emitting surfaces on the BPT varies depending on the shape. Based on the BPT data, the Number of Perceptions (NOP) was proposed as an intermediate variable, and 15 bright-ness calibration curves for VR and real environment light sources were established. This study uses the consistency of visual brightness to establish the correspondence between the VR presen-tations' brightness and the physical illumination of real scenes, which has implications for im-proving the accuracy of VR applications to light environment research and design.

The main use of Augmented Reality (AR) today for the general public is in applications for smartphones. In particular, social network applications allow the use of many AR filters, modifying users' environments but also their own image. These AR filters are increasingly and frequently being used and can distort in many ways users' facial traits. Yet, we still do not know clearly how users perceive their faces augmented by these filters. In this paper, we present a study that aims to evaluate the impact of different filters, modifying several facial features such as the size or position of the eyes, the shape of the face or the orientation of the eyebrows, or adding virtual content such as virtual glasses. These filters are evaluated via a self-evaluation questionnaire, asking the participants about the personality, emotion, appeal and intelligence traits that their distorted face conveys. Our results show relative effects between the different filters in line with previous results regarding the perception of others. However, they also reveal specific effects on self-perception, showing, inter alia, that facial deformation decreases participants' credence towards their image. The findings of this study covering multiple factors allow us to highlight the impact of face deformation on user perception but also the specificity related to this use in AR, paving the way for new works focusing on the psychological impact of such filters.

In virtual reality, the users cannot interact well or execute tasks efficiently, if the absolute distance is perceived incorrectly, or the pointing cursor is designed unreasonably. Drawing on the Fitts??? law extended for stereo pointing, this paper conducts interactive experiments on the pointing in virtual space. The variables involved in the experiments include type of cursor, absolute distance, object scale, and azimuth angle. A total of six assumptions were put forward: the perception precision of absolute distance and the object pointing velocity are influenced by type of cursor, absolute distance, object scale, and azimuth angle. Based on the experimental results, the object pointing precision and the object pointing duration were analyzed, followed by a discussion about the change law of the perception precision of absolute distance with the object pointing velocity. The experimental results show that, in the VR, both pointing cursor and object scale greatly affect perception precision of absolute distance, and object pointing velocity. The azimuth angle of object and absolute distance merely significantly affect object pointing velocity. The type of cursor and absolute distance exert a bidirectional interactive effect on the perception precision of absolute distance, and object pointing velocity. For the two types of pointing cursors, the object pointing duration has a positive correlation with the coefficient of difficulty, which is in line with the Fitts??? law extended for stereo pointing. The research discloses the factors affecting the perception of absolute distance, and guides the interaction and stereo pointing design of VR. Z8 0

During product development, usability tests allow the investigation of product performance in terms of effectiveness and user satisfaction. Virtual Reality (VR) systems provide new modes of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) that can support usability testing at the early design stages by adopting virtual prototypes to simulate product experience. The problem is that only posture and occlusion parameters can be easily measured while the emotional and affective dimension is difficult to be assessed. In this context, the present paper focuses on two objectives. Firstly, it aims at investigating which product attributes stimulate affective user response by defining a structured protocol to analyze how sample users experience product attributes determining affordance and synaesthesia qualities. Then, real and virtual environments are compared in order to address VR systems improvements. Consequently, the second goal is to define a new VR-based environment for usability testing by considering a proper set of existing technologies integrated with a proposed multi-sensorial system for materials texture and roughness perception. Protocol experimentations are carried out in household appliances.

Virtual reality is currently experiencing a comeback. A considerable market has developed for VR computer games and educational applications. Some solutions integrate tracked devices which allow users to freely move within a certain space. Virtual 3D model can be visually explored, implemented collision detected allows users to get a feedback for instance by sound or vibration. For research projects there are several approaches which offer to get the actual feedback for the fingers of a hand, when the users virtually touches the surface of a 3D model. However, in the consumer market currently no product is sold which offers this direct feedback for the whole hand. In this paper we introduce a low-cost hand exoskeleton which is usable in conjunction with commodity hardware. It covers each of the five fingers of the user's hand, its design is open-source, low-cost, can be customized and 3D printed by individuals. It aims at improving the haptic perception of users, bases of a popular physical computing platform and is designed to be assembled even by electronically unexperienced users. We show the integration of our lean interface of the wireless exoskeleton into exemplary VR environment and describe a calibration process which is flexible for customizations.

Injuries and fatalities for vulnerable road users, especially bicyclists and pedestrians, are on the rise. To better inform design for vulnerable road users, we need to evaluate how bicyclist and pedestrian behavior and physiological states change in different roadway design and contextual settings. Previous research highlights the advantages of using immersive virtual environments (IVEs) in conducting bicyclist and pedestrian studies. These environments do not put participants at risk of injury, are low cost compared to on-road or naturalistic studies, and allow researchers to fully control variables of interest. In this paper, we propose a framework, Omni-Reality and Cognition Lab Simulator (ORCLSim), to support human sensing techniques within IVEs to evaluate bicyclist and pedestrian physiological and behavioral changes in different contextual settings. To showcase this framework, we present two case studies, where pilot data from five participants' physiological and behavioral responses in an IVE setting are collected and analyzed, representing real-world roadway segments and traffic conditions. Results from these case studies indicate that physiological data are sensitive to road environment changes and real-time events in the IVE, especially changes in heart rate and gaze behavior. In addition, our preliminary data indicate participants may respond differently to various roadway settings (e.g., signalized vs. unsignalized intersections). By analyzing these changes, future studies can identify how participants' stress level and cognitive load are impacted by the surrounding environment. The ORCLSim system architecture is a prototype that can be customized for future studies in understanding users' behavioral and physiological responses in virtual reality settings.

The present article explores the most popular approaches and the best practices for the design and implementation of cognitive gaming interventions that combine Brain Computer Interface (BCI) systems with Virtual Reality (VR). We focus on interventions that target cognitive skills related to perception, visuospatial attention and visuospatial memory. To this purpose, we review the techniques and algorithms that are commonly used for data pre-processing, feature extraction, and classification in such interventions. We discuss issues related to BCI-VR Cognitive Gaming, including the BCI paradigms, the action tasks and environments, user characteristics, algorithms, channels, accuracy, and the most prominent findings. We conclude with a discussion of the current challenges, limitations, future research directions, and the potential commercial applications of BCI-VR in cognitive gaming.

Virtual reality (VR) can be immersive to such a degree that users sometimes report feeling tactile sensations based on visualization of the touch, without any actual physical contact. This effect is not only interesting for studies of human perception, but can also be leveraged to improve the quality of VR by evoking tactile sensations without usage of specialized equipment. The aim of this paper is to study brain processing of the illusory touch and its enhancement for purposes of exploitation in VR scene design. To amplify the illusory touch, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) was used. Participants attended two sessions with blinded stimulation and interacted with a virtual ball using tracked hands in VR. The effects were studied using electroencephalography (EEG), that allowed us to examine stimulation-induced changes in processing of the illusory touch in the brain, as well as to identify its neural correlates. Results confirm enhanced processing of the illusory touch after the stimulation, and some of these changes were correlated to subjective rating of its magnitude.

On Reddit, users from tens of thousands of communities create and promote internet content, including pictures, videos, news, memes, and creative writing. However, like most social media feeds, subscribing to a very small subset of available content creates filter bubbles. These bubbles, while created unintentionally, skew perceptions of reality. This phenomena provides an impetus for researchers to design techniques breaking out of filter bubbles. Virtual reality provides opportunities for new environments that contextualize social media among multiple perspectives. We present one solution to the filter bubble problem: Blue Link City, which enables contextualized exploration of Reddit.

We are investigating the utility of a projection-based stereoscopic two-user system for applications in the automotive industry. In this paper we compare real-world pointing to pointing at virtual objects in a two-user scenario. In our study we investigated the following situation: One user points at an object while the second person has to guess the referenced object. Our results indicate that pointing at objects in a virtual world is much less precise than pointing in the real world even for a well calibrated stereoscopic two-user system. Pointing techniques like outlining an object or pointing from a distance produce more errors than the corresponding real-world techniques, but they are less error prone than interactions requiring to touch a virtual object. Our findings are a first step to qualify direct interaction techniques in a multi-user projection-based system.

PurposeThere is a growing interest in applying the principles of biophilic design to hotel lobbies to enhance positive user experiences. However, there is little empirical research in this area, particularly for abstract or indirect biophilic approaches. The current study analyzed the biophilic strategy of "organized complexity" (which entails structured hierarchical patterns) in a hotel lobby in relation to attention restoration outcomes.Design/methodology/approachA virtual reality approach was used to create three lobby designs, differing only in their degree of organized complexity. A between-subjects study was conducted with 91 participants, evaluating reactions to the lobby designs in terms of perceived attention restoration, perceived environmental complexity and environmental preferences.FindingsA strong positive relationship was found between participants' perception of environmental complexity and feelings of restoration. However, no statistically significant correlation was found between restoration and the objective measures of organized complexity. This suggests that individual preferences or baseline responses may play a crucial role in the benefits associated with this aspect of biophilic design.Originality/valueThe findings suggest a novel possibility - that responses to organized complexity may not be universal but may instead depend on an individual's background and personal preferences. While the study found that perceived complexity was associated with restoration, the objective features of the environment that incited these perceptions were different for different participants. This indicates that more research is needed into potentially relevant personal factors.

Introduction: Virtual humans have expanded the training opportunities available to healthcare learners. Particularly, virtual humans have allowed simulation to display visual cues that were not previously possible in other forms of healthcare training. However, the effect of virtual human fidelity on the perception of visual cues is unclear. Therefore, we explore the effect of virtual human rendering style on the perceptions of visual cues in a healthcare context.Methods: To explore the effect of rendering style on visual cues, we created a virtual human interface that allows users to interact with virtual humans that feature different rendering styles. We performed a mixed design user study that had undergraduate healthcare students (n = 107) interact with a virtual patient. The interaction featured a patient experiencing an allergic reaction and required trainees to identify visual cues (patient symptoms). The rendering styles explored include a 3D modeled virtual human and an AI generated photorealistic virtual human. Visual cues were applied using a Snapchat Lens.Results: When users are given a frame of reference (users could directly compare symptoms on both rendering styles), they rated the realism and severity of the photorealistic virtual human's symptoms significantly higher than the realism of the 3D virtual human's symptoms. However, we were unable to find significant differences in symptom realism and severity ratings when users were not given a frame of reference (users only interacted with one style of virtual humans). Additionally, we were unable to find significant differences in user interpersonal communication behaviors between the 3D and photorealistic rendering styles.Conclusion: Our findings suggest 1) higher fidelity rendering styles may be preferred if the learning objectives of a simulation require observing subtle visual cues on virtual humans and 2) the realism of virtual human rendering style does not necessarily affect participants' interpersonal communication behaviors (time spent, questions asked).

Older powered chair users' perceptions on and attitudes towards mixed reality and modern facilitating technologies, such as tablets and smartphones, was explored to inform the design of mixed reality games that involve power mobility. Eleven older powered chair users (aged 55 and over) were interviewed in focus groups about their knowledge of, adoption of, experiences with, attitudes about, preferences for, and interest in these topics. Questionnaire and interview data were analysed using descriptive statistics and thematic analysis. Findings suggest that community-dwelling older powered chair users are a technologically forward group that use or are interested in trying new technologies and interaction paradigms, with key barriers being identity mismatch, affordability, and social acceptability. Although they did not see their use of powered chairs, new technologies, and digital entertainment as an integrated system, participants were receptive to the idea of synchronizing assistive and non-assistive technologies for the purpose of social entertainment, advanced training, and/or promoting understanding and empathy in others. In particular, the concept of a game-based mixed reality platform designed around performance mastery for older powered chair users and empathy training for able-bodied friends and family members was well-received. Initial resistance due to identity mismatch or lack of knowledge was mitigated through explanation and examples. Z8 0

Augmented reality (AR), which overlays virtual content on top of the user's perception of the real world, has now begun to enter the consumer market. Besides smartphone platforms, early-stage head-mounted displays such as the Microsoft HoloLens are under active development. Many compelling uses of these technologies are multi-user: e.g., inperson collaborative tools, multiplayer gaming, and telepresence. While prior work on AR security and privacy has studied potential risks from AR applications, new risks will also arise among multiple human users. In this work, we explore the challenges that arise in designing secure and private content sharing for multi-user AR. We analyze representative application case studies and systematize design goals for security and functionality that a multi-user AR platform should support. We design an AR content sharing control module that achieves these goals and build a prototype implementation (ShareAR) for the HoloLens. This work builds foundations for secure and private multi-user AR interactions.

Aim To evaluate the acceptance of three-dimensional virtual reality programs and to explore the factors influencing the acceptance of the programs among the institutionalized older adults. Design A cross-sectional explanatory study. Methods A total of 71 residents completed the program successfully. They were invited to join a 9-week program included eight activities related to horticultural therapy in a virtual environment. Data were collected by structured questionnaires from August 2018 to February 2019. Ten association hypotheses were derived from the literature review. Partial least squares structural equation modelling was used to examine the proposed hypotheses. Results Program acceptance was defined as virtual reality practices and continuous usage intention. Frequency of practice was about 12 times during 9-week free-trial period, and the score of continuance usage intention was 13.06 (maximum value of 15). The findings indicated that virtual reality practices were significantly affected by presence and the presence was significantly affected by involvement and interactivity. Continuance usage intention was significantly affected by involvement; and involvement was significantly affected by interactivity. However, continuance usage intention was not significantly influenced by virtual reality practices. Conclusions The findings supported that immersive three-dimensional virtual reality program was accepted by the institutionalized older adults. The acceptance, in terms of virtual reality practices and continuous usage intention, was influenced by different paths. The findings have a potential impact on the design of virtual reality technology for the care of institutionalized older adults. Impact What problem did the study address? There were controversial findings about the acceptance of immersive 3D virtual reality program among older adults. What were the main findings? Interactivity advanced the sense of presence and, thus, resulted in a higher frequency of virtual reality practices. Interactivity enhanced perception of involvement, thus, contributing to an increased intention of continuous usage Where and on whom will the research have an impact? The immersive 3D virtual reality program was appropriate for older adults, even for first time users or individuals aged over 80 years. The findings revealed new insights for developing immersive 3D virtual reality programs for the older adults.

To effectively communicate the archaeological remains of the distant past is a challenge: Little may be left to see, and the culture may be very different to comprehend. This article compares two technological approaches to communicating Roman archaeology in museums: virtual reality and tangible interaction. Although very different in rationale, design, and implementation, the two explorative studies have the same aim of engaging visitors with important exhibits. The challenge is to effectively communicate the exhibit's original and cultural context. In "Views of the Past," virtual reality was used to support an environmental narrative experience where fragments of history are found scattered in the 3D reconstructed forum of Augustus in Rome. In "My Roman Pantheon," a tangible interactive installation, visitors act as Romans living along Hadrian's Wall making offerings to the deities of the Roman pantheon to secure their protection. In both explorative studies the combination of the features (virtual reality + narratives, tangible + acting) make visitors feel "cultural presence," where the perception of a place is combined with the awareness of the culture and an understanding of the past. Although they work on very different sensorial reaction (sight for virtual reality, touch for tangible interaction), both are promising mechanisms to design effective visitors' experiences for challenging cultural heritage settings.

As 3D graphics environment becomes the standards for most computer systems, it is natural to seek a 3D input device for manipulating an object in a 3D virtual world. Unlike 2D interface, however, 3D interface creates perceptual mismatches including depth perception problem. The objective of our research is to enhance the depth perception and 3D interaction by providing additional information based on the pictorial depth cues and interaction cues. In this paper, we investigated how to incorporate such cues. We designed two kinds of additional viewport that are to be placed on the top of the interaction window. One is a basic additional view with a different FOV, and the other is a compound view made up with 9 small sub-views with varying viewing direction. We also implemented two behaviors of the augmented view with respect to user interaction: Interactive Resizing and Holding-Z. Through a set of user performance tests, we have concluded that the basic additional view with Interactive Resizing and the additional compound view made statistically significant improvement on the performance of 3D interaction with a 3D input device.

There has been a rapid increase in research evaluating usability of Augmented Reality (AR) systems in recent years. Although many different styles of evaluation are used, there is no clear consensus on the most relevant approaches. We report a review of papers published in International Symposium of Mixed and Augmented Reality (ISMAR) proceedings in the past decade, building on the previous work of Swan and Gabbard (2005). Firstly, we investigate the evaluation goal, measurement and method of ISMAR papers according to their usability research in four categories: performance, perception and cognition, collaboration and User Experience (UX). Secondly, we consider the balance of evaluation approaches with regard to empirical-analytical, quantitative-qualitative and participant demographics. Finally we identify potential emphases for usability study of AR systems in the future. These analyses provide a reference point for current evaluation techniques, trends and challenges, which benefit researchers intending to design, conduct and interpret usability evaluations for future AR systems. (C) 2012 British Informatics Society Limited. All rights reserved.

This article is based on an analysis about the understanding of the visualization and spatial projection directed toward students of higher education. This one describes the experience acquired with the course of Descriptive Geometry and it implements in the use of the technology in the spatial projection, which is directed to students of first and second semester of the careers of architecture and industrial design. Its aim is to learn to develop skills for the understanding of visual perception and spatial expression, under systems of parallel and conical projection in the construction of objects and spaces. The present work was realized with the objective so that the student can better understand the spatial sense for the constructive visual representation. Therefore, the use of technology is established through virtual reality and augmented reality, but with the difference that these representations must help the construction of three-dimensional models with the use of laser cutting systems. Considering previous, basic aspects since it is to determine a system of units, scales or coordinates (length, width and thickness) they go jointly so much in the manual representation as the foxglove. The intention to introduce the use of augmented reality is to locate the student any object represented in a given space. Also, with the introduction of the physical construction in laser cut, the student will confirm the result by itself of the work that he realized. To do this, a user-friendly software is chosen that is easy to acquire, such as SketchUp for rendering in Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality, as well as the compatibility of this software with others such as the autocad or illustrator to send the information to the three-dimensional construction in laser, ready for the final presentation. All this synergy in which the work whit instruments by hand is combined with digital systems is done through an interaction design. We are not very accustomed to seeing it in this field of action, but this is a sample of what is done with this process of work.

Objective To study some problems of visual feedback on user cognition and satisfaction in virtual and real interaction with inconsistent input and output. Method Based on natural gestures, experiments were designed to study user's perception of different visual feedback and satisfaction in virtual grasping, with the Ergo LAB physiological auxiliary testing equipment. Conclusion In the virtual and real interaction visual feedback, the feedback form of visual expression is superior to the performance of movement, and the color is the main form. The feedback form of movement performance is stronger in physiological stimulation, deformation is the most feedback way of human cognition, which can increase the sense of immersion. In the interaction involving a variety of visual feedback, it is suggested giving priority to the classification of the same form of expression.

Synthesized surface materials are an essential visualization element to represent and simulate the appearances of virtual objects such as product prototypes. This paper investigates whether the perception of rendered surface materials would be different between a 3D immersive/VR viewing condition and a traditional 2D one. For rendered surface materials, roughness and specularity are the two major parameters that modulate the rendering outcome. In this study, we vary the two parameters and incorporate psychophysics techniques to derive a scale for measuring the perceivable changes of material appearance. Using the perceptual scale as the basis, we run a series of surface appearance matching tasks and compare the participants' task performances in the VR viewing mode and the 2D viewing mode. The results show that in the VR viewing mode, the participants identify the matching materials at higher levels of accuracy and precision. These findings show that the depth impression in immersive viewing environments may result in a different perceptual response to the rendered surface materials.

Autonomous virtual agents (VAs) are increasingly used commercially in critical information spaces such as healthcare. Existing VA research has focused on microscale interaction patterns such as usability and artificial intelligence. However, the macroscale patterns of users' information practices and their relationship with the design and adoption of VAs have been largely understudied, especially when it comes to older adults (OAs), who stand to benefit greatly from VAs. We conducted a preliminary investigation to understand the role design elements, such as anthropomorphic aspects of VAs, play in OAs' perception of VAs and in OAs' preferences for VAs' participation within their health information practices. Some unexpected findings indicate that the fidelity of anthropomorphic features influences perception in ways that are dependent on the context of the information tasks. This suggests that research on improving the design and increasing the adoption of VAs should factor the interplay between fidelity of VA representation and information context.

Terrain generation and authoring in Virtual Reality (VR) offers unique benefits, including 360-degree views, improved spatial perception, immersive and intuitive design experience and natural input modalities. Yet even in VR it can be challenging to integrate natural input modalities, preserve artistic controls and lower the effort of landscape prototyping. To tackle these challenges, we present our VR-based terrain generation and authoring system, which utilizes hand tracking and a generative model to allow users to quickly prototype natural landscapes, such as mountains, mesas, canyons and volcanoes. Via positional hand tracking and hand gesture detection, users can use their hands to draw mid-air strokes to indicate desired shapes for the landscapes. A Conditional Generative Adversarial Network trained by using real-world terrains and their height maps then helps to generate a realistic landscape which combines features of training data and the mid-air strokes. In addition, users can use their hands to further manipulate their mid-air strokes to edit the landscapes. In this paper, we explore this design space and present various scenarios of terrain generation. Additionally, we evaluate our system across a diverse user base that varies in VR experience and professional background. The study results indicate that our system is feasible, user-friendly and capable of fast prototyping.

Touch-produced sounds in tool-surface interactions convey rich information about textured surface properties and provide direct feedback about how users interact with the surface. This article presents a statistical learning-based approach for modeling and rendering touch-produced sounds in real time. We apply a data-driven modeling method, which recreates highly realistic sounds using audio signals recorded from unconstrained tool-surface interactions. The recorded sound is segmented, and each segment is labeled with the average velocity during that time. We model each segment with wavelet tree models using a moving window approach. Each window is analyzed by fast wavelet transform and is then broken down into a tree structure. During rendering, we use the user's current velocity to select tree models and synthesize new sounds by breadth-first search and inverse wavelet transform. We conducted a user study to evaluate the realism of our virtual sounds and their effect on human's perception of the texture dimensions in the presence of simultaneous real haptic cues. The results showed that in the presence of haptic cues, the virtual sound can more completely capture the texture's roughness and hardness than haptic cues alone. However, the perception on slipperiness depended mainly on touch.

While augmented reality research has grown into a mature field over the last years, the aspects of situational awareness and presence of augmented reality (AR) are still quite open research topics. This paper introduces a collaborative game to explore the different perception of situational awareness and presence in a physical and an AR environment. The game is employed as an approximation of collaboratively solving complex problems. The goal of the game is to jointly build a tower with either physical blocks in a physical environment or virtual blocks in an augmented reality environment. A first study with 18 users shows the feasibility of the game and questionnaire design for studying the different perception of situational awareness and presence in a physical and an AR environment. The study further identifies necessary future research with regard to the perception of presence and awareness in AR.

We conducted a series of experiments to investigate effects of scale changes on distance perception in virtual environments. All experiments were carried out in an HMD. Participants first made distance estimates with feedback in a virtual tunnel (adaptation) and then made distance estimates without feedback in a differently-scaled virtual environment (test). We examined several types of scale changes, including changing the size of (1) the tunnel, (2) the targets, and (3) the separation of the two targets. Changes in target size always affected distance estimates at test. When the targets became smaller, participants overshot distance and when the targets became larger, participants undershot distance. Changes in the size of the tunnel or the separation between the targets (without a change in the size of the targets) had a minimal effect on distance estimates. These results indicate that distance estimates at test were strongly influenced by familiar size cues for distance. The discussion focuses on the stability of calibration processes and mechanisms for cue integration for perceiving distance in virtual environments.

Research on creation of virtual humans enables increasing automatization of their behavior, including synthesis of verbal and nonverbal behavior. As the achievable realism of different aspects of agent design evolves asynchronously, it is important to understand if and how divergence in realism between behavioral channels can elicit negative user responses. Specifically, in this work, we investigate the question of whether autonomous virtual agents relying on synthetic text-to-speech voices should portray a corresponding level of realism in the non-verbal channels of motion and visual appearance, or if, alternatively, the best available realism of each channel should be used. In two perceptual studies, we assess how realism of voice, motion, and appearance influence the perceived match of speech and gesture motion, as well as the agent's likability and human-likeness. Our results suggest that maximizing realism of voice and motion is preferable even when this leads to realism mismatches, but for visual appearance, lower realism may be preferable. (A video abstract can be found at https://youtu.be/arfZZ-hxD1Y.)

This article summarizes the Special Issue of "Multimedia Cartography". We present three main research fields in which multimedia cartography and the study of the effectiveness of multimedia maps are currently taking place. In each of these fields, we describe how published research is embedded in the broader context of map design and user studies. The research refers to contemporary technological trends such as web HTML5 standards, virtual reality, eye tracking, or 3D printing. Efficiency, performance, and usability studies of multimedia maps were also included. The research published in this issue is interdisciplinary. They combine traditional mapping methods with new technologies. They are searching for new places for cartography in, e.g., the environment of computer games. They combine the design of the map with its perception by users.

With increasing use of computer applications and robotic devices in our everyday life, and with the advent of metaverse, there is an urgent need of developing new types of interfaces that facilitate a more intuitive interaction in physical and virtual space. In this work, we investigate the influence of the location of haptic feedback devices on embodiment of virtual hands and user load during an interactive pick-and-place task. To do this, we conducted a user study with a 3x2 repeated measure experiment design: feedback position is varied between the distal phalanx of the index finger and the thumb, the proximal phalanx of the index finger and the thumb, and the wrist. These conditions of feedback are tested with the stimuli applied synchronously to the participant in one case, and with an additional delay of 350 ms in the second case. The results show that the location of the haptic feedback device does not affect embodiment, whereas the delay, i.e., whether the feedback is applied synchronously or asynchronously, affects embodiment. This suggests that for pick-and-place tasks, haptic feedback devices can be placed on the user's wrist without compromising performance making the hands to remain free, allowing unobstructed hand visibility for precise motion tracking, thereby improving accuracy.

We describe a new tactile display for use in dexterous telemanipulation and virtual reality. Our system renders the changing location of a remote or virtual contact by moving a tactile element along the user's fingertip. Mounted at the endpoint of a haptic mechanism, our thimble-sized device concurrently displays contact location and interaction forces. We believe such a design will enable more versatile object manipulation for haptic interactions. To evaluate this display concept, we conducted two perceptual experiments. First, human subjects judged object curvature though direct manipulation of physical models and virtual manipulation with the device. Results show similar levels of discrimination in real and virtual interactions, indicating the device can effectively portray contact information. Second, we investigated virtual interactions with rolling and anchored objects and demonstrated that users can distinguish the interaction type using our device. These experiments provide insight into the sensitivity of human perception and suggest that even a simple display of the contact centroid location may significantly enhance telerobotic and virtual grasping tasks.

Wearable haptic displays that relocate feedback away from the fingertip provide a much-needed sense of touch to interactions in virtual reality, while also leaving the fingertip free from occlusion for augmented reality tasks. However, the impact of relocation on perceptual sensitivity to dynamic changes in actuation during active movement remains unclear. In this work, we investigate the perceived realism of virtual textures rendered via vibrations relocated to the base of the index finger and compare three different methods of modulating vibrations with active finger speed. For the first two methods, changing finger speed induced proportional changes in either frequency or amplitude of vibration, and for the third method did not modulate vibration. In psychophysical experiments, participants compared different types of modulation to each other, as well as to real 3D-printed textured surfaces. Results suggest that frequency modulation results in more realistic sensations for coarser textures, whereas participants were less discerning of modulation type for finer textures. Additionally, we presented virtual textures either fully virtually in midair or under augmented reality in which the finger contacted a flat surface; while we found no difference in experimental performance, participants were divided by a strong preference for either the contact or non-contact condition.

Existing psychophysical experiments show that size changes of objects could influence the human perception of objects properties (e.g., shape or weight) in the physical surroundings. On the other hand, Augmented Reality (AR) is an interactive toolkit that allows the integration of virtual objects and real-world environments. However, the absolute detection threshold of size changes on virtual objects is not clear in AR, limiting human perception and experience in AR. In this paper, we designed a pilot study and two psychophysical experiments to explore the humans' ability towards the range of the detection threshold of size changes on virtual objects in AR. Our experimental results show that the range of the detection threshold of size changes is 3.10%-5.18% (reference is a 10* 10 * 10 cm(3) cube). We also calculated the value of the point of subjective equality (PSE = 4.00%), which means that users react `same' with 50% probability upon the given stimulus.

Cave Automatic Virtual Environment (CAVE) is a virtual reality (VR) environment that has not been fully studied due to its high cost and complexity in system integration. Previous CAVE-related studies mainly focused on comparing its effectiveness with other learning media, such as textbooks, desktop VR, or head-mounted display (HMD) VR. In this study, through the utilization of CAVE in a meteorology class, we concentrated on CAVE itself, measured how CAVE impacted learners' learning outcomes before and after using CAVE in an actual ongoing undergraduate-level class, and investigated how learners perceived their learning experiences. Quantitative data were collected to examine the students' knowledge acquisition and learning experience. We also triangulated the quantitative results with qualitative data from the interviews regarding learners' perceptions of the CAVE-enabled class and their knowledge mastery. The results indicated that their learning outcomes increased through learning with CAVE and that their perceptions of immersion, presence, and engagement significantly correlated with each other. The interview results showed a great fondness of and satisfaction with the learning experience, group collaboration, and effectiveness of the CAVE-enabled class from the learners. We also learned that the learners' learning experiences in CAVE could be further improved if we provided them with more learner-environment interaction, offered them a better sense of immersion, and reduced cybersickness. Implications of these findings are discussed.

The use of Virtual Reality (VR) and interactive real-time rendering in urban planning and building design is becoming more and more common. However, the integration of desktop-VR in the urban planning process suffers from complicated navigation interfaces. In particular, people unfamiliar to gaming environments and computers are less prone to interact with a VR visualization using keyboard and mouse as controlling devices. This paper addresses this issue by presenting an implementation of the XBOX 360 Kinect sensor system, which uses the human body to interact with the virtual environment. This type of interaction interface enables a more natural and user-friendly way of interacting with the virtual environment. The validation of the system was conducted with 60 participants using quantitative and qualitative methods. The result showed that participants perceived the interface as non-demanding and easy to use and the interface was perceived better in relation to mouse/keyboard interaction. The implemented interface supported users to switch between different architecture proposals of an urban plan and the switching positively affected learning, understanding and spatial reasoning of the participants. The study also shows that females perceived the system as less demanding than males. Furthermore, the users associated and related their body (human interaction interface) to VR, which could indicate that they used their body during spatial reasoning. This type of spatial reasoning has been argued to enhance the spatial-perception. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 3

In this paper, a novel multi-view stereoscopic interior design system, "Dream Home", has been developed to bring users new interior design experience. Different than other interior design system before, we put emphasis on its intuitive manipulation and multi-view stereoscopic visualization in real time. Users can do their own interior design just using their hands and eyes without any difficulty. They manipulate furniture cards directly as they wish to setup their living room in the model house task space, get the multi-view 3D visual feedback instantly, and re-adjust cards until they are satisfied. No special skills are required, and you can explore your design talent arbitrarily. We hope that "Dream Home" will make interior design more user-friendly, more intuitive, and more vivid.

As an important method for humans to perceive their environment, touch has not been fully integrated into virtual reality technology. Existing tactile feedback devices have the problem of being large and expensive, and most studies have not explored the ability of the affected area to distinguish an external stimulus, thus it is difficult to perform natural human-computer interactions. This article describes the development of a device that can transmit multimodal tactile information in accordance with the characteristics of human hand skin perception during a human-computer interaction. The device has 10 miniature vibrators (Phi = 10 mm, d=2.7 mm) and 2 semiconductor refrigerators (23 mm x 23 mm x 4 mm), which can achieve temperature and vibration feedback. First, the structure and working principle of the device were introduced, and the device's performance was analyzed. Subsequently, an experiment based on the perception characteristics of human hand skin was designed. The experiment determined the vibration level (1-5), heating level (I-IV), and cooling level (I-III) that are consistent with the perception characteristics of the hand skin. Finally, a chemical experiment was designed to test the performance of the device. The results of the experiment showed that 92% of the volunteers thought the device had a higher sense of authenticity and immersion than the traditional virtual reality experience.

PurposeThrough the lens of self-perception theory, this paper investigates how avatar design (i.e. avatar user similarity) affects users' self-awareness and shapes their task engagement and performance in the Metaverse.Design/methodology/approachThe authors conducted a 2 (avatar user similarity: high vs low) x 2 (task type: procedural vs creative) lab experiment and collected data from questionnaires, the recording of users' behavior during tasks and their actual task performance.FindingsThe results show that higher avatar user similarity leads to higher task engagement in general. Furthermore, while a similar avatar promotes users to regulate their behaviors and achieve better performance in a procedural task, high similarity also inhibits users' creativity by invoking habitual thinking, resulting in worse performance in generating original ideas in a creative task.Originality/valueThis study is expected to contribute to the information systems literature by revealing the value of avatar design and providing new perspectives on improving users' experiences in the Metaverse.

For embodied conversational agents (ECAs) the relationship between gesture and rapport is an open question. To enable us to learn whether adding breathing behaviors to an agent similar to SimSensei would lead users interacting to perceive the agent as more natural, we built an application, called Paola Chat, in which the ECA could display naturalistic breathing animations. Our study had two phases. In the first phase, we determined the most natural amplitude for the agent's breathing. In the second phase, we assessed the effect of breathing on the users' perceptions of rapport and naturalness. The study had a within-subjects design, with breathing/not-breathing as the independent variable. Despite our expectation that increased naturalness from breathing would lead users to report greater rapport in the breathing condition than in the not-breathing condition, the study's results suggest that the animation of breathing appears to neither increase nor decrease these perceptions.

Although wheelchair ergometers provide a safe and controlled environment for studying or training wheelchair users, until recently they had a major disadvantage in only being capable of simulating straight-line wheelchair propulsion. Virtual reality has helped overcome this problem and broaden the usability of wheelchair ergometers. However, for a wheelchair ergometer to be validly used in research studies, it needs to be able to simulate the biomechanics of real world wheelchair propulsion. In this paper, three versions of a wheelchair simulator were developed. They provide a sophisticated wheelchair ergometer in an immersive virtual reality environment. They are intended for manual wheelchair propulsion and all are able to simulate simple translational inertia. In addition, each of the systems reported uses a different approach to simulate wheelchair rotation and accommodate rotational inertial effects. The first system does not provide extra resistance against rotation and relies on merely linear inertia, hypothesizing that it can provide acceptable replication of biomechanics of wheelchair maneuvers. The second and third systems, however, are designed to simulate rotational inertia. System II uses mechanical compensation, and System III uses visual compensation simulating the influence that rotational inertia has on the visual perception of wheelchair movement in response to rotation at different speeds.

The researchers of this study designed a new virtual reality (VR)-assisted training system, IFOREAL, for gynecology students at their university and introduced it to potential trainees. Two versions of IFOREAL, each employing different devices, were developed. The consumer version uses a traditional LCD display and computer mouse, whereas the professional version utilizes a head-mounted display (HMD) and joystick controller for the virtual learning. Trainees watched simulated videos and interacted with the system to accomplish tasks. IFOREAL consists of several major learning modules of gynecology. This study used the normal spontaneous delivery module to research user experience and perceptions of the IFOREAL VR training system. The results suggested that most of the trainee's user experiences and perceptions of IFOREAL, using both the types of VR-assisted technology, were positively reported. Trainees who used the consumer version of IFOREAL perceived a stronger internal control, whereas trainees using the professional version perceived a better sense of virtual presence. Overall, trainees perceived the usefulness of the IFOREAL system which predicted their future intention to use the system and other similar VR-assisted training systems for learning. Furthermore, whether the virtual content of IFOREAL grabbed the trainees' attention predicted their future intenon to use professional devices of HMD/joysck for learning other subjects. The gender difference was also explored in the study. Generally speaking, female trainees gave better evaluations of IFOREAL compared to their male counterparts. They perceived a better internal control while using the consumer version than the professional version. Male trainees believed that the gadgets used in the professional version provided a better virtual presence and met their expectation of a virtual experience better. This study suggested that different versions of IFOREAL could serve trainees' different needs. Technology developers and trainers should tailor the application of different VR devices to assist with the training/learning in accordance with different conditions/trainees.

The infusion of virtual three-dimensional (3-D) display systems into the product design and development process has intrigued researchers and practitioners in recent years. However, the variety of commercially available devices has complicated system selection and use for this application. This paper presents results of a study designed to determine if virtual display systems contribute to cross-functional team collaboration during product design reviews. The research conducted at a US Army design facility investigates design team use of virtual environments (VEs) for evaluation of a new armoured vehicle-refuelling concept. Study results indicated that teams detect more design errors when using stereoscopic glasses or conventional monoscopic cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor systems, they detect design errors faster using a head mounted display (HMD), and no differences were found for the time to resolve identified design problems. Subjective perceptions and preferences data analyses indicated that HMD and CRT monitor systems were liked best. Z8 0

This paper deals with the design of a ID sensorial and driving locomotion interface for Virtual Reality applications able to simulate natural walking-in-place. The aim is to provide an unlimited roaming in a virtual world while physically walking in a constrained area. Most of existing locomotion interfaces do not allow to walk naturally in terms of steps length and frequency. Furthermore, we define the term "natural walking" in two complementary ways. The first one is devoted to biomechanical features of human walking, ie the position, speed and acceleration of human body parts. The second one is related to self-movement perception, namely the integration of multi-sensorial information such as kinaesthetic, visual and vestibular information. So, we designed our mechatronical interface using biomechanical and sensorial data of human walking. The interface is equipped with sensors in order to measure floor reaction forces onto the pedals and a video tracking device to measure the current positions of user's feet. Since the program has been written in C++ language, it is easy to create new automata to control the interface for other applications such as running. Finally, the implementation of the interface with the virtual environment is described.

The technology of embodied conversational agents in virtual worlds provides an attractive way to achieve natural and realistic human-computer interaction if the interaction design is handled sensitively. In view of this, we aim at building an embodied tour guide that is able to engage conversationally with system users about gallery exhibits, and capable of behaving according to social norms in terms of gesture and facial expression. The research has focused on the attributes of agent autonomy and believability, not truthfulness. To achieve agent autonomy, we present a three-layered architectural design to ensure appropriate coupling between agent's perception and action, and to hide the internal mechanism from users. We then work towards agent believability: we utilize the notion of schema to support structured and coherent verbal behaviors; careful attention has also been paid to the design of non-verbal agent interactions that help to establish social facts within the virtual world. Our discussion focuses on how reasoning, planning and generation of the verbal and non-verbal behaviors are performed using the schema-based framework. Finally the agent-user interactions are illustrated with a case study.

Accurate sketching in virtual 3D environments is challenging due to aspects like limited depth perception or the absence of physical support. To address this issue, we propose VRSketchPen - a pen that uses two haptic modalities to support virtual sketching without constraining user actions: (1) pneumatic force feedback to simulate the contact pressure of the pen against virtual surfaces and (2) vibrotactile feedback to mimic textures while moving the pen over virtual surfaces. To evaluate VRSketchPen, we conducted a lab experiment with 20 participants to compare (1) pneumatic, (2) vibrotactile and (3) a combination of both with (4) snapping and no assistance for flat and curved surfaces in a 3D virtual environment. Our findings show that usage of pneumatic, vibrotactile and their combination significantly improves 2D shape accuracy and leads to diminished depth errors for flat and curved surfaces. Qualitative results indicate that users find the addition of unconstraining haptic feedback to significantly improve convenience, confidence and user experience.

Virtual Reality (VR) is a remarkably flexible technology for interventions as it allows the construction of virtual worlds with ontologies radically different from the real world. By embodying users in avatars situated in these virtual environments, researchers can effectively intervene and instill positive change in the form of therapy or education, as well as affect a variety of cognitive changes. Due to the capabilities of VR to mediate both the environments in which we are immersed, as well as our embodied, situated relation toward those environments, VR has become a powerful technology for "changing the self." As the virtually mediated experience is what renders these interventions effective, frameworks are needed for describing and analyzing the mediations brought by various virtual world designs. As a step toward a broader understanding of how VR mediates experience, we propose a post-phenomenological framework for describing VR mediation. Postphenomenology is a philosophy of technology concerned with empirical data that understand technologies as mediators of human-world relationships. By addressing how mediations occur within VR as a user-environment relation and outside VR as a human-world relation, the framework addresses the various constituents of the virtually mediated experience. We demonstrate the framework's capability for describing VR mediations by presenting the results of an analysis of a selected variety of studies that use various user-environment relations to mediate various human-world relations.

This study introduces "Flip-Pelt," a motor-driven peltier device designed to provide rapid thermal stimulation and congruent pressure feedback in virtual reality (VR) environments. Our system incorporates eight motor-driven peltier elements, allowing for the flipping of preheated or cooled elements to the opposite side. In evaluating the Flip-Pelt device, we assess user ability to distinguish between heat/cold sources by their patterns and stiffness, and its impact on enhancing haptic experiences in VR content that involves contact with various thermal sources. Our findings demonstrate that rapid thermal stimulation and congruent pressure feedback provided by Flip-Pelt enhance the recognition accuracy of thermal patterns and the stiffness of virtual objects. These features also improve haptic experiences in VR scenarios through their temporal congruency between tactile and thermal stimuli. Additionally, we discuss the scalability of the Flip-Pelt system to other body parts by proposing design prototypes.

Locomotion in virtual reality (VR) remains challenging due to limitations of common input methods. Sedentary input devices may endanger immersion, real-to-virtual world perception dissonance can lead to simulator sickness, and physical input devices such as framed walking dishes are often complex and expensive. We present a low-cost, easy to use, easy to manufacture, and easily portable device for locomotion in VR based on a hoverboard metaphor. Building on related work and our own iterative VR locomotion system designs we hypothesize that hoverboarding can provide a compelling and intuitive method for short- and long-distance locomotion in VR with a potential to reduce simulator sickness due to consistent and stable locomotion that corresponds well to the physical proprioception of the users while navigating VR. We discuss design iterations of our device prototypes, promising results from an early explorative evaluation, as well as ongoing continued work.

Educational institutions have continuously adapted to new realities in school education, accelerated recently by the COVID-19 pandemic's transformation of learning modalities. This article analyzes teachers' and Students' acceptance of a web-based virtual reality (WebVR) tool called Virtual Campus proposed to overcome the limitations of teaching strategies using video conferencing platforms. To measure the acceptance of the Virtual Campus, we designed an instrument based on the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) that involves variables related to online contexts, the future perception of using the tool, skills development, and appreciation and recommendation. The results indicate that the participants favorably accepted WebVR technology as an alternative teaching methodology in emerging learning scenarios and intend to use it post-pandemic. The best-valued elements were interactions in the socialization spaces, the simulation of presence, and the environmental dynamics. The principal areas of opportunity for improvement were overcoming technical problems and improving the internet connection quality; however, these did not affect the participants' recommendations. Future studies should incorporate variables related to analyzing learning mediated by WebVR-based strategies and using different methodological designs to compare the findings.

Many studies have been conducted in the past few years that focus on interaction and embodiment in the field of virtual reality. However, despite the recent widespread use and continuing rise of controller-based head-mounted display (HMD) hardware for VR, there is little research on the use of handheld controllers in this context. We explore the effects of different virtual hand representations on interaction and the user's sense of embodiment, extending the work of Argelaguet et al. in 2016, in this case using controllers. We designed an experiment where users perform the task of selecting and moving a cube from and to specific positions on a table inside an immersive virtual environment, interacting with three representations: the abstract shape of a Sphere, the 3D model of the Controller, and a realistic human-looking Hand. For each representation, users were asked to perform the same task with and without obstacles (Brick Wall, Barbed Wire, Electric Current). Statistical analysis of the results show that although no significant differences were identified in the sense of agency, the users' performance with the Sphere was significantly worse compared to the other two, and in the case of the positioning task the Controller outperformed the others. Additionally, the Hand generated the strongest sense of ownership, and it was the favorite representation.

Purpose - The advent of mixed reality technologies in e-commerce presents marketers with numerous challenges in effectively harnessing these technologies to influence desired consumer behaviours. This paper explores the role of mixed reality in facilitating reality congruence, with the goal of enhancing e-service quality and fostering customer engagement. Through an exploration of the affordance actualization theory within the context of human-computer interaction frameworks, the study examines how mixed reality aligns virtual experiences with real-world perceptions, thereby improving service interactions and contributing to a more immersive and engaging customer experience. Design/methodology/approach - A survey-based research methodology was utilized to examine the sample of 346 participants drawn from e-commerce users, focusing on the conceptual model delineating interrelations among various constructs. Data analysis was conducted employing both symmetric (structural equation model) and asymmetric analysis (fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis). Findings - E-service quality assumes a central role in enhancing reality congruence, thereby facilitating the development of interconnected trait associations such as trust and commitment, which are conducive to customer engagement. Additionally, the findings confirm the validity of the conceptual model through fsQCA analysis, indicating that reality congruence and trust collectively serve as robust predictors of customer engagement. However, it is noteworthy that reality congruence alone does not offer significant predictive insights into customer engagement outcomes. Practical implications - Based on the findings, reality congruence, supported by mixed reality (MR), is essential for e-commerce service providers to induce customer engagement. The practical implications of this study suggest the need for e-commerce service providers and integrative technology designers to engage customers in a digitally connected and intensively competitive era. Originality/value - Examining the phenomenon of user experience in a mixed reality virtual shopping environment to enhance engagement in centennial consumers is an original approach. Z8 0

VR has received increased attention as an educational tool and many argue it is destined to influence educational practices, especially with the emergence of the Metaverse. Most prior research on educational VR reports on applications or systems designed for specified educational or training objectives. However, it is also crucial to understand current practices and attitudes across disciplines, having a holistic view to extend the body of knowledge in terms of VR adoption in an authentic setting. Taking a higher-level perception of people in different roles, we conducted a qualitative analysis based on 23 interviews with major stakeholders and a series of participatory design workshops with instructors and students. We identified the stakeholders who need to be considered for using VR in higher education, and highlighted the challenges and opportunities critical for VR current and potential practices in the university classroom. Finally, we discussed the design implications based on our findings. This study contributes a detailed description of current perceptions and considerations from a multi-stakeholder perspective, providing new empirical insights for designing novel VR and HCI technologies in higher education.

Audio augmented reality (AR) allows for the simultaneous perception of the real environment and a virtual audio overlay. This is especially important in a mobile use context, where users should be continuously aware of their surroundings, such as in the case of urban tourism, when tourists explore foreign cities and their tourist sights. In this work, we investigate the design and implementation of audio AR systems in urban tourism. Our prototype, called AudioNear, is designed to support tourists' exploration of open, urban environments while providing speech-based information about surrounding tourist sights, based on the users' location. At this stage, we present the design concept of AudioNear, its hardware implementation and the first usability feedback. Overall, the study indicated the promising potential of audio AR for providing informative tourist services and engaging experiences.

Augmented Reality (AR) complements perception and interaction with a semi-real world and allows the user to observe a virtual environment enhanced with additional information assisted by a computer. The use of this technology has been introduced in multiple areas especially in education for spatial intelligence development and students' learning improvement. This paper describes the development of a single didactic material representing Ecuador`s historical content through an application of AR in order to improve teaching and learning processes. It shows historical facts on virtual models by superimposing 2D and 3D dynamic graphics which were generated in real time; and description of recognition marks design were utilized to create AR. Thus, it also presents level of acceptance and perception on students using this technology. Students' academic performance was analyzed before and after the didactic material was utilized in the classroom and results were recorded.

Research efforts, in the area of virtual reality, have mostly concentrated on the design and implementation of devices supporting user presence in immersive environments. Much can be done, however, to further improve the experience of wearing a head mounted display, in order to forget being at home while playing a computer game or navigating a virtual environment. In fact, with the widespread availability, in the near future, of head mounted displays (such as oculus rift) not only the power of gaming platforms will increase, but also the support to the construction of graphical user interfaces, which more closely resemble reality. Hence, although it may be exciting to navigate a virtual space wearing a head mounted display, user presence still depends on the functional fidelity of virtual objects. Simply said, presence perception is highly influenced by the opportunity of interacting realistically with the environment at hand. Hence, many graphical user interface (GUI) components should be re-engineered adopting a diegetic approach, as simple adaptations may result unnatural, awkward or out of place. Such fact, urges, for example, re-thinking how users receive and interact with information in virtual worlds. Along this direction of work, this contribution moves a step forward analyzing the role of diegetic interfaces. In particular, it describes the design, the implementation and the performance, to the eyes of its users, of three different diegetic interfaces, tested utilizing the oculus rift display. The results that are here presented, although referring to three specific cases, are of wider scope as they have been obtained for two GUI components that are adopted throughout many different entertainment virtual environments, namely a shell and a global control interface.

Recently, architectural offices and IT companies have undertaken projects to build and sell cities in metaverses. However, it is considered inefficient to undertake such construction individually, building-by-building, using 3D modeling techniques. Fortunately, the use of artificial intelligence (AI) offers a breakthrough solution. This paper proposes a method of automatic generation of architectural spaces that is based on user activities in a metaverse and that can analyze users' perceptions of such spaces. To this end, in the present study, by referencing the theory of environmental psychology, we constructed a theoretical framework that can quantitatively analyze activities, based on which, we developed a metaverse space. Architectural space images were produced based on grammatical rules, which converted the analysis results into text, as well as a deep-learning-based text-to-image generator. Twenty participants responded to two questionnaires on their perceptions and opinions after participating in the metaverse experience and after receiving the architectural space image. Consequently, we analyzed the users' opinions on the architectural space created using the data they provided. Further, we reviewed the validity of the architectural design of the virtual space created using the proposed approach and explored the possibilities of its future utilization.

In this study, we have touched upon a problem in evaluating the method of immersion in specific historico-geographical virtual space constructed on the basis of traditional cartographic and graphic materials. We have obtained opinions from two groups of users on the perception of cultural objects reconstructed in a virtual reality previously unknown to them. To achieve our objective and answer the questions, we have adopted four main stages of research: to pinpoint concepts adopted by researchers by discussing two types of approach, to create a virtual reality application according to the scheme based on knowledge from analog sources and digital actions in several workspaces, to prepare and conduct a survey among experts and gamers, and to graphically juxtapose the results of the survey. The evaluation by experts in medieval strongholds and serious story game users of the specific ways of immersion in the VR of reconstructed buildings in the current area provides researchers with an extended view of its effectiveness and attractiveness as well as with suggestions for further design processes.

Landform understanding and infrastructure fitting in environment is relevant for designing civil infrastructures with lower environmental impact. In addition, in transport infrastructures such as railways and roads, users experience should be taken into account. These users see a dynamic perspective along their routes. In these cases, a 3D visualization of designed infrastructure from their users' point of view is very important during design phase. However, traditional geometric design of roads and railways is done in 2D (horizontal, vertical and cross section). Students should fully understand relation between 2D geometric design and 3D results. Also, they should learn how to use software that helps doing these 3D analyses. In this paper 3D models and virtual reality based videos used in a road design course taught in two master degrees of the Escuela de Ingenieros de Caminos, Canales y Puertos (Civil Engineering School) of the Universidad Politecnica de Madrid are described. Shortcomings in 3D perspective can cause a false road understanding by drivers. These problems are caused by a lack of proper coordination between horizontal and vertical layout. In order to show these problems and how to solve them during infrastructure design phase, three study cases have been developed. They correspond to real roads and exhibit the three most known perspective shortcomings: hidden dips, optical breaks and false perception of inflections. Virtual reality videos showing what a driver circulating by these roads sees have been made. Some videos show the existing design while others show what could be seen if the design were changed. These videos are available through optical label linking web pages. So, students can see these videos using their mobile devices. They could, also, be seen through the website. In this website, additional information such as initial and end designs or how to solve study cases is available.

Design discipline can be defined as it has dynamic, technologic, socio-cultural features and its process changes constantly. The design problems in the design studio are mostly fictional; the virtual user, program and space become concrete by the requirement program that is specified according to research in this process. Although this designed virtual space has potential for construction, it is observed that it remains at conceptual format on paper and doesn't become reality. It is a stubborn fact that both conceptual and construction project provide essential contributions to design discipline and make references to different aspects of design. The final design artifact generated in the light of this information, is beyond being just the perceptions, opinions and technological advancements. It can be defined as the reflection of the existence of its designer. In this report it will be emphasized how is design realized, how are the concern of conceptual thinking, analyzing, synthesizing, evaluating and resulting processes attained, where is the place of intelligence in the perception of problems. The importance of intelligence in the solving the problems and the experiences of memory in this process will be represented as well. As a result of this the design process and studio practice can be recognized as an "experimental" process and the developments in technology provide various interfaces and data. One of the purposes of this report is the discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of technology in the construction phase, which is the continuation of cognitive process. Beside this, design as an "interface" of susceptibility of its designer will be examined whether it reflects the original identities with technological advancements or not. Within the scope of this study, the real-physical environments perceived by an individual and the "perceptional phychology of space" created in individual's mind is compared to the individual's spatial perception experiencing in the virtual environments. The idea of the digital space created by using the VR and AR virtual reality technologies have been researched about to what extent it might be involved with the perception of real human psychology in design education. The effective use of technological visualizing methodologies such as VR and AR will expose a new perspective in design education.

In this paper we describe the usability assessment of a system designed to help blind and visually impaired people to navigate and perceive the environment. The proposed system is based on sensory substitution, remapping the vision stimuli into audio and haptic ones. The goal of this study is to aid the development of the sensory substitution device (SSD) by understanding how the different choices in encoding and rendering the environmental information affects the user's perception and experience while using the system. The preliminary results are presented to show the usability and usefulness of the proposed system.

This paper investigates how the immersion into a real-world user context influences design students' design inspiration and mood improvement. To this aim, the present study analyzed the perception of 16 design students who immersed themselves into a dance studio and compared it with the external evaluation of 74 professional designers. Results indicate that (a) design students can attribute the immersion experience to multiple stimulus sources; (b) the mood improvement and design inspiration induced by the immersion experience predict their satisfaction level; and (c) the design inspiration induced by the immersion experience can be recognized by external observers. These findings can be harnessed for leveraging designers' user research effectiveness by embedding it in an immersion experience.

In this demonstration, we suggest lightweight haptic communications from the context of remote neurorehabilitation. In particular, we collect tactile data from pressure sensors attached to the human hand and design a classifier to determine the objects that an individual holds or grasps. Finally, we have implemented the proposed system on Raspberry Pi and demonstrated a personalized classification while rendering the haptic feedback in a virtual perception.

Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) applications have seen a drastic increase in commercial popularity. Different representations have been used to create 3D reconstructions for AR and VR. Point clouds are one such representation characterized by their simplicity and versatility, making them suitable for real time applications, such as reconstructing humans for social virtual reality. In this study, we evaluate how the visual quality of digital humans, represented using point clouds, is affected by compression distortions. We compare the performance of the upcoming point cloud compression standard against an octree-based anchor codec. Two different VR viewing conditions enabling 3- and 6 degrees of freedom are tested, to understand how interacting in the virtual space affects the perception of quality. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work performing user quality evaluation of dynamic point clouds in VR; in addition, contributions of the paper include quantitative data and empirical findings. Results highlight how perceived visual quality is affected by the tested content, and how current data sets might not be sufficient to comprehensively evaluate compression solutions. Moreover, shortcomings in how point cloud encoding solutions handle visually-lossless compression are discussed.

Augmented Reality (AR) is an innovation accelerator for Industry 4.0 that supports the digitalization and improves the efficiency of the industrial sector by providing powerful tools able to enhance the workers' visual perception by combining the real world view with computer-generated data. In this context, the paper presents a new AR tool and an exploratory test in order to examine how well it supports the user's tasks for the detection of design discrepancies. In particular, the test aims to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed tool and how it compares to other instruments traditionally adopted for this end, such as technical drawings and CAD systems. The experimental findings show that the proposed AR tool presents similar results with the other instruments in term of effectiveness and very encouraging results about its efficiency.

The hardware requirements of Virtual Reality (VR) environments are more affordable each day. Users can be immersed in virtual environments by different technologies but the most affordable immersive technology with enough feature is Head-mounted display (HMD), a visual display that is more or less rigidly attached to the head. Devices like HTC Vive and Oculus Rift allow creating VR experience with reduced budget and high levels of interaction. The human experience is a multisensory process, which shifts according to changes in perception and individual experiences. Ergonomics emerges as an indispensable discipline for human interaction with the new technologies providing high usability (efficiency, learnability and satisfaction), proper functionality (easy navigation, easy interface condition) and achieving the most varied possible ends of them. To supply which aspects provides a better experience, recent research addressing technical and structural issues of technological devices will be considered, taking into account the immersion variables and the user's comfort. It will be shown that since of the hand-held stereoscope by David Brewster among of the years, there is an incessant search for the creation of what is not presented, sharpening our imagination, capturing our attention and providing new interactions. Also, since the Renaissance technology has become an essential element in the perception of the gazer thanks to the development of optical devices and techniques for representing the perspective. This synthesis of current research will be helpful to VR Researchers, developers, designers, entrepreneurs, managers, marketers and users to select the appropriate features and hardware for each VR experience abstract should summarize the contents of the paper in short terms, i.e. 150-250 words.

We introduce a toolkit for creating, editing, storing, sharing and broadcasting dynamic haptic media through current computing devices. Adapted from an audio-based infrastructure, our Stereohaptics toolkit uses off-the-shelf hardware components and available software tools to create various haptic interfaces and applications. Core of our toolkit is the Stereohaptics engine that processes inputs from embedded sensors and renders high definition haptic feedback on discrete actuator grids. We exploit sensory illusions in touch to generate the perception of objects and their motion on, around and through the user's body and present psychophysical evidence of static and moving tactile illusions between two discretely spaced haptic actuators. The toolkit supports users to craft a variety of haptic effects on and across the body in a variety of grid configurations. We present design of the toolkit and its use in various activities and workshops. Our framework is easy-to-use and simple-to-adopt and can be applied to everyday handheld, wearable, augmented reality, virtual reality and extended reality applications.

Motion parallax is a crucial visual cue produced by translations of the observer for the perception of depth and self-motion. Therefore, tracking the observer viewpoint has become inevitable in immersive virtual (VR) reality systems (cylindrical screens, CAVE, head mounted displays) used e. g. in automotive industry (style reviews, architecture design, ergonomics studies) or in scientific studies of visual perception. The perception of a stable and rigid world requires that this visual cue be coherent with other extra-retinal (e. g. vestibular, kinesthetic) cues signaling ego-motion. Although world stability is never questioned in real world, rendering head coupled viewpoint in VR can lead to the perception of an illusory perception of unstable environments, unless a non-unity scale factor is applied on recorded head movements. Besides, cylindrical screens are usually used with static observers due to image distortions when rendering image for viewpoints different from a sweet spot. We developed a technique to compensate in real-time these non-linear visual distortions, in an industrial VR setup, based on a cylindrical screen projection system. Additionally, to evaluate the amount of discrepancies tolerated without perceptual distortions between visual and extra-retinal cues, a "motion parallax gain" between the velocity of the observer's head and that of the virtual camera was introduced in this system. The influence of this artificial gain was measured on the gait stability of free-standing participants. Results indicate that, below unity, gains significantly alter postural control. Conversely, the influence of higher gains remains limited, suggesting a certain tolerance of observers to these conditions. Parallax gain amplification is therefore proposed as a possible solution to provide a wider exploration of space to users of immersive virtual reality systems.

Telepresence, the perception of presence within a physically remote or simulated site, has been identified as a design ideal for synthetic environments. However, confusion exists within the literature about the precise definition of telepresence. Furthermore, there is a need for a plausible and parsimonious model of telepresence. This paper identifies three types of telepresence extant in the literature: simple telepresence, cybernetic telepresence, and experiential telepresence. The third definition is the most interesting. This paper reviews the origins of experiential telepresence and the theoretical approaches commonly used to explain it. One can term these technological approaches, which emphasize the role of control/display technology, and psychological approaches, which identify experiential telepresence with known psychological phenomena. Finally, the paper presents and discusses an integrative approach to telepresence featuring a structured attentional resource model. Actual or potential applications of this research include the design of future human-machine interfaces for teleoperated robots and virtual reality systems.

This paper will explore how the aesthetics of the virtual world affects, transforms, and enhances the immersive emotional experience of the user. What we see and what we do upon entering the virtual environment influences our feelings. mental state, physiological changes and sensibility. To create a unique virtual experience the important component to design is the beauty of the virtual world based on the aesthetics of the graphical objects such as textures, models, animation, and special effects. The aesthetic potency of the images that comprise the virtual environment can make the immersive experience much stronger and more compelling. The aesthetic qualities of the virtual world as born out through images and graphics can influence the user's state of mind. Particular changes and effects on the user can be induced through the application of techniques derived from the research fields of psychology, anthropology, biology, color theory, education, art therapy, music, and art history. Many contemporary artists and developers derive much inspiration for their work from their experience with traditional arts such as painting, sculpture, design, architecture and music. This knowledge helps them create a higher quality of images and stereo graphics in the virtual world. The understanding of the close relation between the aesthetic quality of the virtual environment and the resulting human perception is the key to developing an impressive virtual experience.

Purpose This study proposed a research model for verifying the structural relationships among users' perceived spatial presence (VR affordance), situational interest (affective factor) and behavioral attitudes (outcome) toward online virtual museum navigation. What role of situational interest plays in the relationships between spatial presence and outcomes was further examined. Design/methodology/approach There were 141 adults invited to participate in the research trials on the navigation of the online virtual museum which was established by 3D space capture techniques. This study conducted a series of PLS-SEM to analyze the participants' quantitative responses to the surveys of spatial presence, situational interest and attitudes. Findings The testing of reliability and validity for the measurement model of this study was satisfied. The significance of users' perceived situational interest: attention demand, instant enjoyment and exploration intention when navigating the online virtual museum with perceptions of spatial presence were identified. The mediation of situational interest in the relationships between spatial presence and behavioral attitudes were also verified. Practical implications For the practical design of desktop-based online virtual museums, it is suggested that more engaging strategies such as narrative storytelling and gamified interaction could be integrated to enhance users' situational interest including attention demand, instant enjoyment and exploration intention. Originality/value Through the examination of situational interest from multiple constructs, the research model of this study advanced the conceptual framework for understanding the consequences of VR affordance in online virtual museum navigation. The theoretical contribution to verifying the mediated role of situational interest was made.

A motion effect, the vestibular stimulus generated by a moving chair, is crucial in improving user experiences in many virtual reality (VR) and entertainment applications. However, the perceptual characteristics of motion effects remain unexplored to a great extent. This paper constructs a perceptual space that accounts for many motion effects based on their perceptual distances and then demonstrates smooth-rough and irregular-regular as its two primary perceptual dimensions. An authoring space is constructed with these two pairs as the axes. We also present methods for synthesizing new motion effects with a specific property in the authoring space. The contributions of this work are with new insights into the perceptual characteristics of motion effects and the first design methods of motion effects achieving desired perceptual properties.

Project MindCatcher is an art/research project which has the intention to explore the potential of interactive artistic environments for measuring and a better understanding of creative experience and contribute to further development of co-creative artistic/design process. For that purpose, we created the Floor Interface and collected a set of data from its interactive points such as: personal information from the login process, abstract multi-sensory artefacts created by visitors, visitors' walking paths from the floor interface, video shooting of their behaviour on the floor interface during the sessions, results from the interviews which were done with visitors and personal observations.

Offline rendering techniques have nowadays reached an astonishing level of realism but pay the cost of long computational times. The new generation of programmable graphic hardware, on the other hand, gives the possibility to implement in realtime some of the visual effects previously available only for cinematographic production. We describe the design and implementation of an interactive system which is able to reproduce in realtime one of the crucial sequences from the short movie "The Parthenon" presented at Siggraph 2004. The application is designed to run on a specific immersive reality system, making possible for a user to perceive the virtual environment with nearly cinematographic visual quality. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Dragging a tool across a textured surface produces vibrations that convey important perceptual information about the interaction and the underlying qualities of the surface. These vibrations depend on the motions of the tool and respond to both normal force and tangential speed. This paper explores various methods of simulating haptic texture interactions by rendering tool vibrations that are based on recorded data. We designed and ran a human-subject study (N=15) to analyze the importance of creating virtual texture vibrations that respond to user force and speed. Our analysis of data from fifteen textures showed that removing speed responsiveness did cause a statistically significant decrease in perceived realism, but removing force responsiveness did not. This result indicates that virtual textures aiming to simulate real surfaces should vary the rendered vibrations with user speed but may not need to vary them with user force.

This study examines the relationship between the virtual bodies of anthropomorphic avatars and exploratory creativity in empirical architectural design education. In Study 1, architecture major students (N?=?83) conducted two design tasks via each of an actual human body in a real environment with a full-scale mockup model and avatars in a 3D virtual environment with a digital model. Following the tasks, students evaluated self-exploration levels, aiming to discover unexpected, novel, and functional solutions. In Study 2, students (N?=?106) designed two architectural 3D digital models, without and with the presence of avatars, with self-evaluations as in Study 1. The statistical analyses revealed that (1) the virtual and actual bodies were not statistically different in supporting the students? exploratory creativity. However, (2) in digital modeling, using the virtual body of an avatar better facilitated the search for functional aspects of design and consequently promoted exploratory creativity, relevant to perception-action coupling and para-perception.

Redirected walking (RDW) enables users to explore large virtual spaces by real walking in small real spaces. How to effectively reduce physical collisions and decrease user perceptions of redirection are important for most RDW methods. This article proposes a segmented redirection mapping method to calculate and map the roadmap of a large virtual space with inner obstacles to a mapped roadmap within a small real space. We adopt a Voronoi-based pruning method to extract the roadmap of the virtual space and design an RDW platform to interactively modify the virtual roadmap. We propose a roadmap mapping method based on divide-and-conquer and dynamic planning strategies to subdivide the virtual roadmap into several sub-virtual roads that are mapped individually. By recording connections of different sub-virtual roads, our method is applicable to virtual roadmaps with loop structures. During mapping, we apply the reset and redirection gains of the RDW technique as optimal aims and restrict conditions to obtain the mapped roadmap, which has small path curving and contains as few resets as possible. By real walking along the mapped roadmap, users perceive moving along the virtual roadmap to explore the entire virtual space. The experiment shows that our method works effectively for various virtual spaces with or without inner obstacles. Furthermore, our method is flexible in obtaining mapped roadmaps of different real spaces when the virtual space is fixed. Compared to prevalent RDW methods, our method can significantly reduce physical boundary collisions and maintain user experience of virtual roaming.

Recent proliferation of available virtual reality (VR) tools has seen increased use in psychological research. This is due to a number of advantages afforded over traditional experimental apparatus such as tighter control of the environment and the possibility of creating more ecologically valid stimulus presentation and response protocols. At the same time, higher levels of immersion and visual fidelity afforded by VR do not necessarily evoke presence or elicit a "realistic" psychological response. The current paper reviews some current uses for VR environments in psychological research and discusses some ongoing questions for researchers. Finally, we focus on the area of visual perception, where both the advantages and challenges of VR are particularly salient.

Estimating the depth of virtual content has proven to be a challenging task in Augmented Reality (AR) applications. Existing studies have shown that the visual system makes use of multiple depth cues to infer the distance of objects, occlusion being one of the most important ones. The ability to generate appropriate occlusions becomes particularly important for AR applications that require the visualization of augmented objects placed below a real surface. Examples of these applications are medical scenarios in which the visualization of anatomical information needs to be observed within the patient's body. In this regard, existing works have proposed several focus and context (F+C) approaches to aid users in visualizing this content using Video See-Through (VST) Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs). However, the implementation of these approaches in Optical See-Through (OST) HMDs remains an open question due to the additive characteristics of the display technology. In this article, we, for the first time, design and conduct a user study that compares depth estimation between VST and OST HMDs using existing in-situ visualization methods. Our results show that these visualizations cannot be directly transferred to OST displays without increasing error in depth perception tasks. To tackle this gap, we perform a structured decomposition of the visual properties of AR F+C methods to find best-performing combinations. We propose the use of chromatic shadows and hatching approaches transferred from computer graphics. In a second study, we perform a factorized analysis of these combinations, showing that varying the shading type and using colored shadows can lead to better depth estimation when using OST HMDs.

Affective engineering research on products and services has been actively conducted, but there is little research on affect regarding newly emerging information technology products and services and analysis of cultural differences by country. This study used network analysis to collect the major affective vocabulary of individuals in the USA, China, Indonesia, Korea, and Russia for emerging IT products and services, and thereby analysed cultural differences. Affective vocabulary was collected related to virtual reality devices, fitness trackers, drones, a call taxi service, mobile pay, and virtual currency. Vocabulary collected through a survey was categorised into major affective vocabulary through network analysis. Social awareness of products/services was confirmed through analysis of the positive/negative aspects of the vocabulary. The affect of the target IT products/services was compared and interpreted with reference to Hofstede theory. The results of this study may be used as a basis for the development of IT products and services.

Virtual reality has become a popular means to study human behavior in a wide range of settings, including the role of pedestrians in traffic research. To understand distance perception in virtual environments is thereby crucial to the interpretation of results, as reactions to complex and dynamic traffic scenarios depend on perceptual processes allowing for the correct anticipation of future events. A number of approaches have been suggested to quantify perceived distances. While previous studies imply that the selected method influences the estimates' accuracy, it is unclear how the respective estimates depend on depth information provided by different perceptual modalities. In the present study, six methodological approaches were compared in a virtual city scenery. The respective influence of visual and non-visual cues was investigated by manipulating the ratio between visually perceived and physically walked distances. In a repeated measures design with 30 participants, significant differences between methods were observed, with the smallest error occurring for visually guided walking and verbal estimates. A linear relation emerged between the visual-to-physical ratio and the extent of underestimation, indicating that non-visual cues during walking affected distance estimates. This relationship was mainly evident for methods building on actual or imagined walking movements and verbal estimates.

Background: Virtual reality is an emerging technology for nursing education. This technology can provide visual, motor, and auditory immersion into a virtual environment, thereby mimicking reality. Virtual reality may be an effective pedagogical tool for nursing educators to meet the learning needs of nursing students. Objective: The aim of this scoping review was to map the existing literature on the use of immersive virtual reality implemented within nursing education programs with nursing students. Design: Scoping review following established methodology. Data sources: A database search of ERIC (OVID), Medline (OVID), PubMed, Web of Science, and CINAHL Plus with Full Text, and Nursing and Allied Health Database. Records published between January 2010 and August 2022. Review methods: Two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts of 2115 articles. Fourteen articles were included in this scoping review. Results: Five major themes were identified in the thematic analysis: Self-confidence, Skill acquisition, Improved learning outcomes, Perspective taking, and Promoting engagement. Immersive virtual reality is being utilized in a variety of clinical settings and with different intended purposes. Most virtual reality research is focused on end-user satisfaction and perceptions of usability. Conclusions: This scoping review provides a comprehensive understanding of the use of immersive virtual reality within nursing education. There is a range of definitions of virtual reality utilized within nursing literature. Further research is necessary to study this growing area of technology for nursing education.

The emergence of vibrotactile feedback in hand wearables enables immersive virtual reality (VR) experience with whole-hand haptic rendering. However, existing haptic rendering neglects inconsistent sensations caused by hand postures. In our study, we observed that changing hand postures alters the distribution of vibrotactile signals which might degrade one's haptic perception. To address the issues, we present HapticPilot which allows an in-situ haptic experience design for hand wearables in VR. We developed an in-situ authoring system supporting instant haptic design. In the authoring tool, we applied our posture-adaptive haptic rendering algorithm with a novel haptic design abstraction called phantom grid. The algorithm adapts phantom grid to the target posture and incorporates 1D & 2D phantom sensation with a unique actuator arrangement to provide a whole-hand experience. With this method, HapticPilot provides a consistent haptic experience across various hand postures is available. Through measuring perceptual haptic performance and collecting qualitative feedback, we validated the usability of the system. In the end, we demonstrated our system with prospective VR scenarios showing how it enables an intuitive, empowering, and responsive haptic authoring framework.

For children, school-age is the best time to develop common-sense knowledge, as they need to know things by touch and direct perception. Currently, fire productions for children are the best medium for children's learning but most of the existing children's firefighting products have a single function and low interest, which cannot meet the growing needs of children and gradually cannot attract children's attention. In terms of user experience, Augmented Reality (AR), as a new technology, is easy to arouse children's interest in learning and stimulate children's curiosity and exploration. AR technology adds computer-generated writing information, pictures, virtual 3D designs, videos, or scenes to the actual background perceived by users in real-time and accurately. It recognizes the organic incorporation of virtual and real scenes, to achieve a sensory practice outside reality. Integrating this technology into the design of children's fire education products will play a role in teaching fun. Keeping the importance of VR technology in our society, this research paper designs a smart car by utilizing STM32F103 chip microcontroller as the key regulator core to regulator peripheral motorized drives, ultrasound, sensors, and other modules. Furthermore, the experiments demonstrate that the laboratory may be of practical benefit in developing learners' comprehensive capacity and practical technological capabilities.

This paper focuses on the use of virtual reality (VR) systems for teaching industrial assembly tasks and studies the influence of the interaction technology on the learning process. The experiment conducted follows a between-subjects design with 60 participants distributed in five groups. Four groups were trained on the target assembly task with a VR system, but each group used a different interaction technology: mouse-based, Phantom Omni (R) haptic, and two configurations of the Markerless Motion Capture (Mmocap) system (with 2D or 3D tracking of hands). The fifth group was trained with a video tutorial. A post-training test carried out the day after evaluated performance in the real task. The experiment studies the efficiency and effectiveness of each interaction technology for learning the task, taking in consideration both quantitative measures (such as training time, real task performance, evolution from the virtual task to real one), and qualitative data (user feedback from a questionnaire). Results show that there were no significant differences in the final performance among the five groups. However, users trained under mouse and 2D-tracking Mmocap systems took significantly less training time than the rest of the virtual modalities. This brings out two main outcomes: (1) the perception of collisions using haptics does not increase the learning transfer of procedural tasks demanding low motor skills and (2) Mmocap-based interactions can be valid for training this kind of tasks.

Positive thermal perception can affect users' climate-controlling behavior, indirectly reducing a building's operational carbon emissions. Studies show that some visual elements, such as window sizes and light colors, can influence thermal perception. However, until recently there has been little interest in the interaction of thermal perception and outdoor visual scenarios or natural elements like water or trees, and little quantitative evidence has been found associating visual natural elements and thermal comfort. This experiment explores and quantifies the extent to which visual scenarios outdoors affect thermal perception. The experiment used a double-blind clinical trial. All tests were done in a stable laboratory environment to eliminate temperature changes, and scenarios were shown through a virtual reality (VR) headset. Forty-three participants were divided into three groups randomly, separately watched VR-outdoor scenarios with natural elements, VR-indoor scenarios, and a control scenario of the real laboratory, then finished a subjective questionnaire conducted to evaluate their thermal, environmental, and overall perceptions while their physical data (heart rate, blood pressure, pulse) was real-time recorded. Results show that visual scenarios could significantly influence thermal perception (Cohen's d between groups > 0.8). Significant positive correlations were found between key thermal perception index, thermal comfort, and visual perception indexes including visual comfort, pleasantness, and relaxation (all PCCs & LE; 0.01). Outdoor scenarios, with better visual perception, rank higher average scores (M & PLUSMN; SD = 1.0 & PLUSMN; 0.7) in thermal comfort than indoor groups (average M & PLUSMN; SD = 0.3 & PLUSMN; 1.0) while the physical environment remains unchanged. This connection between thermal and environmental perception can be used in building design. By being visually exposed to pleasing outdoor environments, the positive thermal perception will increase, and thus reduce building energy consumption. Designing positive visual environments with outdoor natural elements is not only a requirement for health but also a feasible path toward a sustainable net-zero future.

A cyber-character is a kind of artificial life inhabiting a virtual world. To be a life form in the virtual world, cyber characters need sensors and control systems. The sensor system enables the cyber character to recognize not only the virtual world but: also the real world in such a manner that it can respond to user's commands. The control system provides the cyber character with life-like behavior by generating goals and plans, selecting appropriate actions, and finally by animating the character. Users may feel the cyber character to be alive because of its close interaction and smart performance. In this paper, a cyber-character system designed to provide users with a realistic feeling of an artificial life is discussed.

Recent research revealed that individual cognitive differences affect visual behavior and task performance of picture passwords within conventional interaction realms such as desktops and tablets. Bearing in mind that mixed reality environments necessitate from end-users to perceive, process and comprehend visually-enriched content, this paper further investigates whether this new interaction realm amplifies existing observed effects of individual cognitive differences towards user interactions in picture passwords. For this purpose, we conducted a comparative eye tracking study (N = 50) in which users performed a picture password composition task within a conventional interaction context vs. a mixed reality context. For interpreting the derived results, we adopted an accredited human cognition theory that highlights cognitive differences in visual perception and search. Analysis of results revealed that new technology realms like mixed reality extend and, in some cases, amplify the effect of human cognitive differences towards users' visual and interaction behavior in picture passwords. Findings can be of value for improving future implementations of picture passwords by considering human cognitive differences as a personalization factor for the design of user-adaptive graphical passwords in mixed reality.

This study explored how telepresence could be affected by stimuli from reality that distracts people while they are watching television. The sample comprised of 36 undergraduate and graduate students from a university in South Korea (age range: 18-38 years,M = 22.61, and SD = 4.12). A between-subjects experimental design was employed with two types of viewing equipment (a television screen vs. a television screen with side screens that act as stimuli from reality) and two bezel widths (2 cm vs. 10 cm) to examine how each condition influenced the viewers' perceived telepresence. The results revealed that participants' perception of telepresence was not affected by the type of viewing equipment. However, the level of telepresence was affected by the bezel width: the thinner the bezel, the more telepresence felt by the viewers. These findings provide important insights that can guide the future designs of screen bezels for televisions and other devices in order to more effectively create immersive virtual worlds. Future studies are needed to examine the relationship between central vision and telepresence.

Haptic technologies are increasingly valuable for human-computer interaction in its many flavors, including, of course, virtual reality systems, which are becoming very useful tools for education, training, and rehabilitation in many areas of medicine, engineering, and daily life. There is a broad spectrum of technologies and approaches that provide haptic stimuli, ranging from the well-known force feedback to subtile pseudo-haptics and visual haptics. Correspondingly, there is a broad spectrum of applications and system designs that include haptic technologies as a relevant component and interaction feature. Paramount is their use in training of medical procedures, but they appear in a plethora of systems deploying virtual reality applications. This narrative review covers the panorama of haptic devices and approaches and the most salient areas of application. Special emphasis is given to education of persons with special needs, aiming to foster the development of innovative systems and methods addressing the enhancement of the quality of life of this segment of the population.

Real walking offers higher immersive presence for virtual reality (VR) applications than alternative locomotive means such as walking-in-place and external control gadgets, but needs to take into consideration different room sizes, wall shapes, and surrounding objects in the virtual and real worlds. Despite perceptual study of impossible spaces and redirected walking, there are no general methods to match a given pair of virtual and real scenes. We propose a system to match a given pair of virtual and physical worlds for immersive VR navigation. We first compute a planar map between the virtual and physical floor plans that minimizes angular and distal distortions while conforming to the virtual environment goals and physical environment constraints. Our key idea is to design maps that are globally surjective to allow proper folding of large virtual scenes into smaller real scenes but locally injective to avoid locomotion ambiguity and intersecting virtual objects. From these maps we derive altered rendering to guide user navigation within the physical environment while retaining visual fidelity to the virtual environment. Our key idea is to properly warp the virtual world appearance into real world geometry with sufficient quality and performance. We evaluate our method through a formative user study, and demonstrate applications in gaming, architecture walkthrough, and medical imaging.

Sketching in virtual reality (VR) enhances perception and understanding of 3D volumes, but is currently a challenging task, as spatial input devices (e.g., tracked controllers) do not provide any scaffolding or constraints for mid-air interaction. We present VRSketchIn, a VR sketching application using a 6DoF-tracked pen and a 6DoF-tracked tablet as input devices, combining unconstrained 3D mid-air with constrained 2D surface-based sketching. To explore what possibilities arise from this combination of 2D (pen on tablet) and 3D input (6DoF pen), we present a set of design dimensions and define the design space for 2D and 3D sketching interaction metaphors in VR. We categorize prior art inside our design space and implemented a subset of metaphors for pen and tablet sketching in our prototype. To gain a deeper understanding which specific sketching operations users perform with 2D and which with 3D metaphors, we present findings of usability walkthroughs with six participants.

In order to properly design pedestrian spaces, it is important to consider pedestrian safety and comfort. Recently, with the rapid progress of virtual reality (VR) technologies, reproducing objects closer to VR users has become easier. Therefore, VR systems are expected to be valuable tools for evaluating safety and comfort from the pedestrians' viewpoint. In particular, VR enables users to interact not only with ordinary vehicles but also with surrounding pedestrians or personal mobility vehicles, and thus a wider range of applications are expected. However, most attempts to validate VR performance have so far have been limited to cases of pedestrians encountering ordinary vehicles. In this research, pedestrians' cognition and behavioral characteristics toward other pedestrians and personal mobility vehicles were analyzed by comparing those measured in VR and in real spaces. It was shown that the perception of distance and subjective danger from personal mobility vehicles are not different in VR and real spaces when the vehicle approaches VR participants from the front and back, although the subjective danger tends to be less sensitive to the lateral space between VR participants and the personal mobility vehicle. It was also revealed that VR participants tend to keep a larger lateral clearance than in real spaces when avoiding other pedestrians. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

We present a visuo-haptic crossmodal model of shape perception designed for shape-changing handheld controllers. The model uses the inertia tensor of an object to bridge the two senses. The model was constructed from the results of three perceptual experiments. In the first two experiments, we validate that the primary moment and product of inertia (MOI and POI) in the inertia tensor have critical effects on the haptic perception of object length and asymmetry. Then, we estimate a haptic-to-visual shape matching model using MOI and POI as two link variables from the results of the third experiment for crossmodal magnitude production. Finally, we validate in a summative user study that the inverse of the shape matching model is effective for pairing a perceptually-congruent haptic object from a virtual object-the functionality we need for shape-changing handheld interfaces to afford perceptually-fulflling sensory experiences in virtual reality.

This study used the verbal protocol method to examine differences in perceptions of spatial mental imagery between students and studio lecturers and between clients and designers/architects, which lead to interpretational bias between groups of respondents regarding interior spaces. Individual perceptions of virtual space dimensions were captured by the 3D application, Associative Words -Generator (c) (AWG (c)), which revealed impressions of the four respondent groups, using associative concept networks analysis on the visualization of virtual space with a database of 16,200 associative words. This study determined AWG (c) reduced the visual discrepancy gap during design critic and design consultation. Comparison of the results of the associative words generated during non-VR mental imagery and the VR session (AWG (c)) indicated that the student group most effectively used the VR. The lecturer group exhibited a thorough understanding of interior design and space architecture in their response in non-VR and VR sessions, which created a mental spatial imagery gap between the students and lecturers. The client group was inexperienced in interior design and architecture, resulting in different outcomes than the designer/architect group. In the VR session, the student and client groups more easily accepted visualizations generated by AWG, because they had fewer experiences and references than the lecturers and designers/architects, and thus, accepted the AWG virtual space visualization stimuli. The lecturer and designer/architect groups shared experiences that affected their expectations in responding to the generated visualizations, resulting in difficulty to accept the AWG virtual space visualization stimuli.

This work concerns the usability assessment of two control devices for a wheelchair-mounted robot manipulator aimed at assisting physical disabled people. The assessment of the usability is a crucial issue for the design of such products, since they communicate with their users not only through their shape, but especially through their control interfaces. In a first phase, the study focuses on defining a synthetic usability index on the basis of the methodologies currently in use. In a second phase, some experiments in Virtual Reality (VR) have been carried out. The use of VR technologies for the collection of the experimental data has been fundamental in terms of safety, costs and repeatability of the tests. Another important result has been the reduction of the sources of noise, thanks to preliminary simulations in VR and non-invasive questionnaires and interviews for capturing the subjective perceptions of users. Finally, it is worth noticing that the developed model may show its validity also in evaluating the usability of other products. Indeed, it provides a basis for a more extensive use of VR experiments for evaluating different design solutions in terms of global usability requirements.

This paper presents a novel lightweight and simple TSA-based (twisted string actuation) wearable haptic glove (ExoTen-Glove). This system is using two independent twisted string actuators with integrated force sensors and small-size DC motors. The proposed system can provide users force feedback during the execution of grasping virtual objects. The design of the TSA-based ExoTen-Glove, description of the TSA system, the controller and the preliminary experimental evaluation of the proposed system has been presented in this paper. This device has been evaluated by an experiment in virtual reality environment using HTC VIVE headset with 2 degrees of freedom grasping tasks, where the participants were squeezing a real spring with their thumb and index finger and compare it with a virtual spring stiffness. The results prove the applicability of the ExoTen-Glove for rehabilitation and haptic purposes.

The advancement of science and technology has shattered the dichotomy between "knowing" and "doing". The proliferation of digital technology has fragmented the view of the physical and virtual worlds as one. Thus, current design practice is challenged with the cognitive separation of the material and digital worlds, despite the integration of physical items and virtual services across international borders. Modern cognitive research is transitioning from "disembodied" to "embodied-enactive" in response to this issue. This trend demonstrates that humans are irreplaceable as cognitive subjects in both virtual and physical communities. The purpose of this article is to use the theory of embodied cognition as a research foundation and to investigate new perspectives and approaches for resolving the problem of cognitive separation in the digital world in the context of the integration of digital and reality. It inspires design practitioners to understand the object of design and related design system issues in terms of embodied experience and the overall relationship between the environment, the body, the brain, and the mind; enables people to interact with the digital world more naturally and to create and transmit meaning in the process of interaction; and assists design disciplines in focusing on "people" and investigating user behavior, perception, and "meaning" on a deeper level. Embodied design theory emphasizes the importance of the embodied connection between emotions and situations, and embodied cognition theory is essential for the study of human-intelligent interaction patterns within the context of intelligence.

While numerous studies have examined 3D interaction techniques for Virtual Reality (VR) across various tasks and scenarios, limited research has focused on music-related applications. However, the most common input techniques in consumer VR systems have been developed outside of the musical domain. Therefore they have not been tested in tasks where synchronization with auditory stimuli and timing plays a crucial role. There is a lack of empirical knowledge about performance and user experience. This paper presents a comparison of five selection input techniques for VR employing the tapping paradigm commonly utilized in the research on sensorimotor synchronization. We assess asynchrony and timing variance as well as user experience, encompassing factors such as ease of use, workload, and cybersickness of such techniques. The study involved 30 participants, both with and without musical expertise, and encompassed the examination of all techniques using one and two hands. Our analysis yielded several key findings: (1) different input techniques yielded distinct outcomes regarding timing asynchrony and variance; (2) the choice of interaction metaphor significantly influenced the user experience; (3) tracking stability emerged as a critical factor. Building upon these insights, we identified essential considerations for selecting the most suitable technique for music creation in VR and proposed design guidelines and future research directions in this domain.

With the rapid advancement of digital games, serious games have emerged as a significant medium for engaging with cultural heritage. As a primary visual element in cultural heritage, color plays a crucial role in users' digital learning. However, there is currently a scarcity of serious game designs that specifically focus on cultural heritage colors, indicating potential for improvement in the user experience. To further enhance users' perception of color and create a more engaging and enriching digital cultural heritage experience, this study proposes a virtual reality serious game (VR SG) design method specifically tailored to cultural heritage colors. Additionally, it explores the potential of VR SG in enhancing the education, entertainment, and dissemination aspects of these colors within cultural heritage. Specifically, we explore how to integrate relevant knowledge of cultural heritage colors into the application process of VR SG and assess users' learning performance, engagement, and interactive willingness within these VR SG. The study employs the colors of the Dunhuang cave frescoes as a case study for design practice. A total of 30 participants took part in a between-group comparison experiment, utilizing a mixed-methods approach that combined quantitative and qualitative assessments to compare the performance of a VR SG with a VR exhibition game. The results indicate that both the VR SG and the VR exhibition game effectively enhance users' understanding and retention of knowledge, with VR SG users demonstrating higher levels of task engagement, emotional engagement, willingness to explore, and willingness to share. This study confirms the potential of VR SG to enhance the education, entertainment, and dissemination aspects of cultural heritage colors and discusses the implications of VR SG in supporting digital cultural heritage experiences.

This co-design study examined salutogenic potential of mobile virtual reality (VR) experiences as an alternative to participation in a community-based symphonic engagement program (B Sharp), previously found to benefit people with dementia (PWD) and their informal caregivers. Six focus groups were conducted with sixteen adults aged 76-90; three participants had dementia, and two were informal spousal caregivers. No participants had prior VR experience. The study assessed the feasibility of replicating the community-based-arts program in VR, with the goal of enhancing its salutogenic qualities (e.g., positive distraction, engagement, and social connection). Video-recordings of participants while using a mobile head-mounted display (HMD) were analyzed using qualitative thematic analysis to compare perceptions of different virtual experiences, including replication or enhancement of B Sharp and a campus tour. Findings suggest participants had positive perceptions of enhanced VR experiences with no adverse effects, although PWD were less enthusiastic and HMD usability was complicated by eyewear use and comfort with technology. Participants reacted most favorably to the enhanced symphonic experience, where they were "virtually" onstage during the performance, suggesting unique experiences beyond what is possible in the real world have the greatest potential for deep immersion for older adults. Results suggest VR has strong potential to replicate and enhance salutogenic qualities of community-based programming by enabling greater access to experiences for older adults and by increasing enjoyment and engagement through experiences not otherwise feasible. Furthermore, this study illuminates advantages of a user-centered, co-design approach when developing VR experiences with community partners and older adults.

The current study sought to investigate the effects of matching body movement and body size between an avatar and a participant on the body ownership illusion (BOI), the body size illusion, the sense of presence, simulator sickness, and emotional responses within an immersive virtual reality (IVR). Forty participants experienced their life-sized virtual avatars from a first-person perspective using a full-body motion-capture system. The experiment used a 2 (Motion: Synchrony and Asynchrony) x 2 (Size: Matched and Unmatched) within-subject design. Each participant completed a self-reported questionnaire that evaluated BOI, body size illusion, presence, simulator sickness, and emotional valence. Results showed that matching participant's motion to that of an avatar increased the BOI and sense of presence, while reducing simulator sickness. Furthermore, participants reported more positive emotions when motion was synchronized to the virtual avatar. Most notably, synchronizing body movement between participants and avatars resulted in strong body size illusion even when the body size of an avatar was larger than the one of a participant. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to directly link synchronization of user motion and body size to a virtual avatar with user's subjective experience (BOI, body size illusion, sense of presence, simulator sickness, and valence) in IVR. Our findings suggest beneficial effects of synchronized body motion and matched body size between a user and avatar on user's subjective experience in IVR, which can possibly boost the effects of virtual reality applications in the fields of entertainment, psychotherapy, and education.

Haptic rendering of virtual objects requires a model for the object's hardness. The classical spring-damper model is effective in resisting the user's penetration into the virtual surface, while a short vibratory transient signal superimposed at contact increases the user-perceived hardness. In this paper, we are concerned with the combined case: the perceived hardness of a virtual surface rendered by the spring-damper model with a contact transient, in the tool-mediated perception. We report three perceptual experiments conducted to clarify the effects of five rendering parameters-stiffness and damping (spring-damper model); and amplitude, frequency, and decay rate (contact transient). All the parameters except decay rate are shown to have statistically significant effects on the perceived hardness. We also present a psychophysical magnitude function of perceived hardness for the four significant parameters of stiffness, damping, amplitude, and frequency. This mathematical model helps virtual environment designs build the virtual surfaces of desired perceived hardness.

The current study assessed the relative effectiveness with which unimodal tactile, unimodal touch-produced auditory, and bimodal tactile + auditory cues contribute to the performance of an absolute texture identification task via remote touch. The study contributes to our fundamental understanding of the unimodal perception and intersensory integration of multimodal surface texture cues generated during surface exploration with rigid probes. The results also have significant implications for the design of unimodal and multisensory displays for use with teleoperation and virtual environment systems, as it addresses which modality(ies) may be used to most effectively present sensory information about remotely explored surface textures.

As the field of haptics in virtual reality expands, wearable devices are being explored as alternatives to traditional kinesthetic force feedback devices, which are often limited in workspace. Skin deformation feedback offers a user-grounded feedback modality that mimics cutaneous interactions with the real world but can suffer from force-output saturation due to the actuation constraints required to achieve a small form factor. Saturation of haptic devices limits the mechanical properties and interactions that can be rendered in a virtual environment, specifically the weight that can be rendered when a user manipulates a virtual object. We use scaled inertial forces to alter virtual weight perception during a dynamic grasp-lift-and-place task in a virtual environment with haptic feedback via two wearable skin deformation feedback devices. A study was conducted, beginning with an open response exercise to assess how participants interpreted scaled inertial forces when interacting with virtual blocks. Participants then performed a series of trials to measure the Point of Subjective Equality of virtual weight with scaled inertial forces, using a reference of 200 g under the normal (no scaling) condition. PSEs for inertial scaling factors of 2 and 3 were 171 g and 151 g, respectively. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of a unique haptic rendering algorithm that can convey larger weights without saturating the force output of the haptic device.

The aim of this chapter is to provide an overview of the state of the art in research on visually-induced self-motion illusions in real and virtual environments. Specific focus will be on a topic that is of particular interest in the context of VR but has not been thoroughly reviewed before: Namely how self-motion illusions are not only affected by physical stimulus parameters themselves via bottom-up perceptual processes (as discussed in section 3), but also by the way we look at, perceive, and interpret the stimulus, how it is integrated into the overall display setup, and whether or not actual motion might be possible (see section 4). Knowledge of these factors can not only deepen our understanding of the complex processes underlying self-motion perception, but might also be of particular interest for VR simulations and other immersive/multi-media applications like gaming or movies, as these factors can often be manipulated with relatively little effort. Section 5 will provide a brief overview on recent studies on multi-modal contributions and interactions for vection. These indicate significant cross-modal benefits, which could, together with the results presented in earlier sections, be employed to design more effective-yet-affordable VR interfaces, as will be discussed in the final section and throughout this chapter. Possible side-effects of vection in VR are discussed in section 6.

Encountered-Type Haptic Displays (ETHDs) provide haptic feedback by positioning a tangible surface for the user to encounter. This permits users to freely eliciting haptic feedback with a surface during a virtual simulation. ETHDs differ from most of current haptic devices which rely on an actuator always in contact with the user. This article intends to describe and analyze the different research efforts carried out in this field. In addition, this article analyzes ETHD literature concerning definitions, history, hardware, haptic perception processes involved, interactions and applications. The paper proposes a formal definition of ETHDs, a taxonomy for classifying hardware types, and an analysis of haptic feedback used in literature. Taken together the overview of this survey intends to encourage future work in the ETHD field.

An effective interaction in augmented reality (AR) requires utilization of different modalities. In this study, we investigated orienting the user in bimodal AR. Using auditory perception to support visual perception provides a useful approach for orienting the user to directions that are outside of the visual field-of-view (FOV). In particular, this is important in path-finding, where points-of-interest (POIs) can be all around the user. However, the ability to perceive the audio POIs is affected by the ventriloquism effect (VE), which means that audio POIs are captured by visual POIs. We measured the spatial limits for the VE in AR using a video see-through head-worn display. The results showed that the amount of the VE in AR was approx. 5 degrees-15 degrees higher than in a real environment. In AR, spatial disparity between an audio and visual POI should be at least 30 degrees of azimuth angle, in order to perceive the audio and visual POIs as separate. The limit was affected by azimuth angle of visual POI and magnitude of head rotations. These results provide guidelines for designing bimodal AR systems.

An immersive virtual reality (iVR) game for high school students to learn about locations in their watershed with a primary focus on their city was designed and developed, employing a design model that focuses on flow. An exploratory study with the iVR game was conducted in an urban school in the eastern USA with 57 adolescents ages 16-18 from a population that is economically disadvantaged and includes students who are typically unengaged in traditional school-based learning environments. After game completion, the participants completed a 10-item survey measuring elements of flow and a 12-item survey designed to measure perceptions toward learning with VR games, immersion and presence. Participant focus groups were conducted with an emphasis on features that promoted engagement, learning, immersion, and presence. The findings revealed that all students experienced a flow state when they played the iVR learning game. Almost all users (98.1%) had positive attitudes towards using the iVR game. Students experienced high immersion and presence. In addition, students had favorable attitudes towards learning with iVR games in school environments.

The cave automatic virtual environment (CAVE) system is one of the most fully immersive systems for virtual reality environments. By providing users with realistic perception and immersive experience, CAVE systems have been widely used in many fields, including military, education, health care, entertainment, design, and others. In this paper, we focus on the design applications in the CAVE. The design applications involve many interactions between the user and the CAVE. However, the conventional interaction tool, the wand, cannot provide fast and convenient interactions. In this paper, we propose vDesign, a CAVE-based virtual design environment using hand interactions. The hand interactions in vDesign are classified into menu navigation and object manipulations. For menu navigation, we define two interactions: activating the main menu and selecting a menu item. For object manipulations, we define three interactions: moving, rotating, and scaling an object. By using the proposed hand interactions, we develop the functions of image segmentation and image composition in vDesign. With the image segmentation function, the designer can select and cut the interested objects from different images. With the image composition function, the designer can manipulate the segmented objects and combine them as a composite image. We implemented the vDesign prototype in CAVE and conducted experiments to evaluate the interaction performance in terms of manipulation time and distortion. The experimental results demonstrated that the proposed hand interactions can provide faster and more accurate interactions compared to the traditional wand interactions.

In contrast with modernizing industrial structure in recent years, traditional Japanese crafting industries have not always introduced advanced technology. So, in order to activate those industries as local industries, it is required to promote their activities, train up their successors and improve the productivity. In this paper, we propose a user-friendly three-dimensional CG presentation system for typical Japanese crafting industries. Using our proposed system, user can retrieve fittings from distributed database based on user's perception, see fittings without spoiling the natural beauty and design and present a interior/exterior rooms using high speed network. In order to realize the presentation space from many three-dimensional fitting data stored in distributed database system on Internet, we classified the presentation space model and implement our system using VRML and Java.

Including haptic feedback in current consumer VR applications is frequently challenging, since technical possibilities to create haptic feedback in consumer-grade VR are limited. While most systems include and make use of the possibility to create tactile feedback through vibration, kinesthetic feedback systems almost exclusively rely on external mechanical hardware to induce actual sensations so far. In this paper, we describe an approach to create a feeling of such sensations by using unmodified off-the-shelf hardware and a software solution for a multi-modal pseudo-haptics approach. We first explore this design space by applying user-elicited methods, and afterwards evaluate our refined solution in a user study. The results show that it is indeed possible to communicate kinesthetic feedback by visual and tactile cues only and even induce its perception. While visual clipping was generally unappreciated, our approach led to significant increases of enjoyment and presence.

We propose an interaction method for mixed reality with a direct application on training applications. It is based on the combination of two key ideas: providing real user embodiment within virtual spaces by segmenting user real hands and allowing the manipulation of physical objects, which may preserve or change their real appearance, in the immersive scenario. We deployed a functional prototype of this concept using Unity for the base scenario, a color-based algorithm for object segmentation and Aruco library for object tracking. Then, to take advantage of gamification, we built a five-minute escape room game designed to validate all components: real embodiment, real objects, augmented real objects and control devices. We carried out a thorough evaluation of our system with 53 users and a fair comparison scheme: each user had to play the escape room twice, once with real objects and hands, and once with purely virtual objects and avatars. After each run, users had to answer a survey derived from standard questionnaires measuring presence, embodiment and quality of experience. Some quantitative data related to performance were also extracted from the game runs. Results validate our hypothesis that this approach significantly improves key factors such as presence or embodiment with respect to the counterpart virtual solution. We foresee our solution to provide a significant advance in the implementation of virtual training applications.

Omnidirectional (or 360 degrees) images and videos are emergent signals being used in many areas, such as robotics and virtual/augmented reality. In particular, for virtual reality applications, they allow an immersive experience in which the user can interactively navigate through a scene with three degrees of freedom, wearing a head-mounted display. Current approaches for capturing, processing, delivering, and displaying 360 degrees content, however, present many open technical challenges and introduce several types of distortions in the visual signal. Some of the distortions are specific to the nature of 360 degrees images and often differ from those encountered in classical visual communication frameworks. This paper provides a first comprehensive review of the most common visual distortions that alter 360 degrees signals going through the different processing elements of the visual communication pipeline. While their impact on viewers' visual perception and the immersive experience at large is still unknown-thus, it is an open research topic-this review serves the purpose of proposing a taxonomy of the visual distortions that can be encountered in 360 degrees signals. Their underlying causes in the end-to-end 360 degrees content distribution pipeline are identified. This taxonomy is essential as a basis for comparing different processing techniques, such as visual enhancement, encoding, and streaming strategies, and allowing the effective design of new algorithms and applications. It is also a useful resource for the design of psycho-visual studies aiming to characterize human perception of 360 degrees content in interactive and immersive applications.

This paper reports on the effect of visually-anchored prediction accuracy of haptic information on the perceived presence of virtual environments. We designed an experiment which explicitly prevented confounding factors potentially introduced by virtual body ownership and/or agency. The experimental design consisted of two main conditions defining congruent vs incongruent visual and haptic cues. Presence was measured during as well as after exposure. A distance estimation task solely based on motor action and the visually-anchored spatial model of the environment was executed to control for perceptual binding. 56 healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to one of two groups in a single-blind mixed-group design study. The study revealed increased presence for high prediction accuracy and decreased presence for low prediction accuracy, while perceptual binding still occurred. The observed effect sizes were in the medium range. The results indicate a significant correlation between prediction accuracy of haptic information and the perceived realness and presence of a virtual environment which gives rise to a discussion about models for dissociative symptom derealisation.

This paper contributes to a taxonomy of augmented reality and robotics based on a survey of 460 research papers. Augmented and mixed reality (AR/MR) have emerged as a new way to enhance human-robot interaction (HRI) and robotic interfaces (e.g., actuated and shape-changing interfaces). Recently, an increasing number of studies in HCI, HRI, and robotics have demonstrated how AR enables better interactions between people and robots. However, often research remains focused on individual explorations and key design strategies, and research questions are rarely analyzed systematically. In this paper, we synthesize and categorize this research field in the following dimensions: 1) approaches to augmenting reality; 2) characteristics of robots; 3) purposes and benefits; 4) classification of presented information; 5) design components and strategies for visual augmentation; 6) interaction techniques and modalities; 7) application domains; and 8) evaluation strategies. We formulate key challenges and opportunities to guide and inform future research in AR and robotics.

Virtual reality environments can introduce multiple and sometimes conflicting accommodative stimuli. For instance, with the high-powered lenses commonly used in head-mounted displays, small discrepancies in screen lens placement, caused by manufacturer error or user adjustment focus error, can change the focal depths of the image by a couple of diopters. This can introduce a binocular accommodative stimulus or, if the displacement between the two screens is unequal, an unequal (anisometropic) accommodative stimulus for the two eyes. Systems that allow simultaneous viewing of virtual and real images can also introduce a conflict in accommodative stimuli: When real and virtual images are at different focal planes, both cannot be in focus at the same time, though they may appear to be in similar locations in space. In this paper four unique designs are described that minimize the range of accommodative stimuli and maximize the visual system's ability to cope efficiently with the focus conflicts that remain: pinhole optics, monocular lens addition combined with aniso-accommodation, chromatic bifocal, and bifocal lens system. The advantages and disadvantages of each design are described and recommendation for design choice is given after consideration of the end use of the virtual reality system (e.g., low or high end, entertainment, technical, or medical use). The appropriate design modifications should allow greater user comfort and better performance.

To ensure that the human component is adequately addressed in system design, requirements for human performance, manning levels, training, and safety, the elements of human systems integration (HSI) must be considered early in the design process. HSI requirements are integrated through implementation of HSI modeling and simulation (M&S). Objectives of HSI M&S are to: (1) assess alternative concepts in terms of human performance, productivity, workload, and; (2) provide hunan performance inputs to system level simulation, and determine the impact of system design and organization on human performance and safety; (3) quantify relationships between human capabilities and system characteristics; and (4) visualize and quantify spatial relationships between humans and system elements. Payoffs of HSI M&S are the ability to: (1) acquire data on human performance, skills, and safety provisions in advance of system construction; (2) model human performance in system concept alternatives; (3) assess human performance as a function of human machine interface (HMI) design concepts; and (4) assess team performance as a function of HMI design, communications design, and collaborative problem solving. Challenges of HSI M&S in a virtual environment include problems associated with: (1) virtual interfaces (of the simulated system); (2) human perception and cognition in virtual environments; (3) virtual object manipulation; and (4) quality of data acquired during simulation.

Recent developments in autonomous vehicle technologies have raised questions about how to achieve efficient communication between pedestrians and autonomous vehicles. External Human Machine Interfaces (eHMI) have been proposed as one mechanism for making pedestrians aware of the intentions of driverless vehicles. Children are especially vulnerable in traffic, yet few studies have addressed how to accommodate young pedestrians. We therefore conducted a study soliciting the reactions of 10 children (7-15 years old) and 10 adults as a control (20-30 years old) on eHMI design concepts proposed in the literature. In the first phase of the experiment participants were shown different eHMI concepts though a set of static and animated images, while the second phase subjected the participants to an immerse virtual reality experience of three different eHMIs. The results indicate that both children and adults preferred text-based interfaces. The results also suggest that children are more accepting of eHMIs than adults.

Haptic interfaces allow a more realistic experience with Virtual Reality (VR). They are used to manipulate virtual objects. These objects can be rigid and soft. In this letter, we have designed and evaluated a vibrotactile hand-held device (VibeRo) to achieve haptic cues of different soft objects. The proposed method is based on combining the vision-driven displacement produced by the pseudo-haptics effect with the haptic illusion of a limb displacement obtained from force-driven synthesis of vibration of a contact surface. VibeRo features a voice-coil actuator and force-sensitive resistors for generating squeeze forces at fingertips. We present an evaluation of VibeRo's pseudo-haptic and haptic illusion effects to render soft virtual objects. The efficacy of the approach was validated in experiments with human subjects.

Background: Virtual reality (VR) psychological therapy has the potential to increase access to evidence-based mental health interventions by automating their delivery while maintaining outcomes. However, it is unclear whether these more automated therapies are acceptable to potential users of mental health services. Objective: The main aim of this study was to develop a new, validated questionnaire to measure public perceptions of VR therapy (VRT) guided by a virtual coach. We also aimed to explore these perceptions in depth and test how aspects such as familiarity with VR and mental health are associated with these perceptions, using both quantitative and qualitative approaches. Methods: We used a cross-sectional mixed methods design and conducted an exploratory factor analysis of a questionnaire that we developed, the Attitudes Towards Virtual Reality Therapy (AVRT) Scale, and a qualitative content analysis of the data collected through free-text responses during completion of the questionnaire. Results: We received 295 responses and identified 4 factors within the AVRT Scale, including attitudes toward VRT, expectation of presence, preference for VRT, and cost-effectiveness. We found that being more familiar with VR was correlated with more positive attitudes toward VRT (factor 1), a higher expectation of presence (factor 2), a preference for VRT over face-to-face therapy (factor 3), and a belief that VRT is cost-effective (factor 4). Qualitative data supported the factors we identified and indicated that VRT is acceptable when delivered at home and guided by a virtual coach. Conclusions: This study is the first to validate a scale to explore attitudes toward VRT guided by a virtual coach. Our findings indicate that people are willing to try VRT, particularly because it offers increased access and choice, and that as VR becomes ubiquitous, they will also have positive attitudes toward VRT. Future research should further validate the AVRT Scale.

Computational tools in architecture have yet to adequately address the issue of evaluating and informing design through the prism of visual perception in 3-dimensional environments. Previous research has demonstrated that although the issue of understanding and designing public spaces is of significant importance, existing methods of data representation in VR are not extensively investigated. The present paper reports on research into the development of a computational model that evaluates and visualises information regarding permeability of the urban fabric in a virtual environment. Primary aim is to create an additional layer for early design stages that will assist in projecting all information in VR space so that the user can explore and grasp through data the impact of each design step in an immersive, human scale.

Helping to reconstruct and restore tactile perception motivates the continuous development of functional materials, sensing structures, and manufacturing strategies. Coding and use of mechanotransduction signals from artificial tactile perception make a vital contribution to provide tactile feedback for robots, prosthetics, and rehabilitation therapy. Here we propose a hetero-contact microstructure (HeCM) to fabricate tactile sensor by using silver nanowires@polyurethane scaffold combined with layered carbon fabric. The synergistically perceiving of the HeCM enables the mechanosensational range of tactile sensor to be programmatically and significantly enhanced by > 100% compared to the one of the common counterpart. The as-designed sensor characterizes high sensitivity, fast response time, and reproducible electromechanical properties to identify static and dynamic external pressure changes. Actual fingertip events can be converted into visual or audio interactive feedback in virtual reality by the intelligent sensor, demonstrating the feasibility and practicality of design concept and great potential of the sensor for human-interactive system.

This paper presents a system and methodology for the analysis of quality of experience factors for dense multiview (MV) video using a head-mounted device (HMD). An MV-HMD player has been designed and implemented to immerse the users in a virtual environment, where they are placed in front of a virtual lightfield display that shows a different viewpoint depending on the position of their head. This paper describes a methodology for the analysis of the subjective perception of the transition among views (motion parallax), which is specific to the visualization of MV content. While previous works simulated the user movement by predefined view paths or used complex devices to track them, this system allows the observer to move freely, varying the perspective of the scene while easily tracking the observer's position. This paper is, up to our knowledge, the first providing a complete framework for the assessment of this subjective factor using an HMD. The subjective results obtained using this framework are used to 1) assess the influence of the user movement, display settings, and content characteristics in the perception of smoothness in the view transition, and 2) analyze the performance and limitations of a prediction model for subjective smoothness scores. Z8 0

Augmented reality (AR) is an emergent technology in tourism. However, research concerning the AR user experience is relatively scarce and seldom addresses the intentions of designers. Accordingly, we sought to: (a) explore the design intentions underlying a multi-user, purpose-built AR experience; (b) assess the extent to which users' realized experience aligned with the designers' intended experience; and (c) examine the relationships between users' internal states and their associated behavior, in alignment with a Stimulus-Organism-Response framework. In Study 1, designers (n = 5) took part in a focus group and completed a design intentions survey. In Study 2, users (n = 48) tested the AR experience, and a range of subjective (e.g., affective responses) and objective (i.e., visual attention) data were recorded. Findings indicated designer-user disparities primarily at the organism and response levels. Additionally, users' affective responses to the AR experience were strongly associated with visitor engagement. Z8 0

Eco-feedback is a design strategy that reminds users of their resource consumption as they use a product. The ultimate goal is to promote pro-environmental behaviors in users by making them aware of the environmental impact of their consumption. The way these designs present resource usage information can significantly impact user perceptions. This paper investigates two aspects of resource usage presentation, quantitative feedback and emotional evocativeness, by evaluating 32 designs spanning electricity, materials, transportation, and water via surveys of 619 university students in the US and Saudi Arabia. Both these aspects are positively correlated with perceived product appeal and perceived effectiveness in encouraging sustainable behavior. It was found that presenting quantitative resource usage information was more helpful to respondents who could better estimate resource consumption, while the emotional evocativeness of a design aided respondents with lower and higher resource consumption knowledge to a similar degree. In addition, we found that images of living creatures and strong visual cues evoked strong emotions in users. Female participants, in general, responded more strongly than males to this emotional evocativeness. These experimental findings cast light on how to better design eco-feedback products to be more widely accepted.

Designing engaging virtual-reality (VR) experiences to promote a tourist destination is a challenge for destination managers. There is still limited research on which VR characteristics (i.e., format, field of view, presence of animated elements, presence of sound effects, and perceived realness/vividness) have greater impacts on memory recall (i.e., what a person remembers from the VR experience) and favorable behaviors (i.e., intent to visit, repeat the experience, recommend the product, and engage in word-of-mouth advertising). Thus, to investigate such aspects, this study discusses a protocol that includes the use of heart rate (HR), a specific biophysical data, and self-reported perceptions of users exposed to a VR experience. A case study of a VR experience developed by Ticino Tourism, a regional Swiss Destination Management Organization, to promote a destination was conducted, including the participation of 23 users in pre- and post-experiments that tracked their HR data. The findings show that specific characteristics of the VR experience, such as presenting an unusual viewpoint to the user and incorporating animated elements, hold potential in encouraging the formation of strong memories. Z8 0

Immersive virtual reality represents one of the most promising technologic aids in the development of a functional lighting design, especially when considering different points of view as users' satisfaction. This paper presents a new methodology to use Unreal Engine 4.22 as a tool for lighting applications, allowing correct reproduction of artificial light distribution in the game engine by identifying and properly setting a restricted set of parameters. A real office was carefully reproduced, in both the Unreal Engine and DIALux evo software, as comparative case study. Then, the luminance distribution is calculated with both programs on the same surfaces in the virtual environment and compared with the real one. The results suggest a good reliability of the Unreal Engine in reproducing the light distribution, underlining slight differences under certain conditions. In light of these findings, the proposed method seems to validate the use of Unreal Engine as a light design tool.

This paper investigates the influence of X-ray vision metaphors on distance estimation in optical-see-through augmented reality (AR) in action space. A within-subjects study (N = 30) was conducted to evaluate depth judgments across five conditions, including a novel "invisible mesh" technique. Participants performed a series of blind walking tasks that required estimating the depth of AR objects displayed at multiple distance ranges in front or behind a physical occluding surface. Although quantitative results regarding the impact of different X-ray vision metaphors on distance perception were inconclusive, participant feedback revealed a diversity of strategies and preferences. Overall, the findings suggest that no single metaphor was considered universally superior, and multiple X-ray vision metaphors may be suitable for different users and situations. This research contributes to understanding of X-ray vision techniques and informs the design considerations for AR systems aiming to enhance depth perception and user experience.

Higher education institutions are continuously seeking new and functional technologies to enhance productivity and to effectively reconstruct the curriculums in order to meet the needs and expectations of diverse students. Among them, creating a virtual environment for students to conduct e-Learning is a growing tendency. With recent emphasis on developing English for Occupational Purposes (EOP) competencies of students in mind, this study is focused on combining both technology and curriculum design to achieve this goal. A virtual reality (VR) learning environment is created to enhance student learning experience. A total of 154 English major students participated in the study. A survey was administered to collect the students perception towards the courseware after 3 months of usage. Results suggest that students are indeed affected by their self-efficacy and technological acceptance. Further implications are also provided for future studies.

Acoustics play a significant role in our everyday lives, influencing our communication, well-being, and perception of space. Fast and precise acoustics simulation is crucial for the accurate design of real spaces by architects and acousticians and maximises the user's immersion in virtual and augmented reality environments. Computer simulation techniques can help to simulate and analyse acoustics. However, their cumbersome, computationally expensive, and often inaccurate results discourage most architecture practices from including acoustic evaluation in their design workflow and prevent real-time accurate audio synthesis in virtual reality. Recent advancements in Machine Learning (ML) and particularly Deep Learning offer compelling solutions to address the above problems. ML methods require large data -sets for training, and existing datasets are either not large enough, contain synthetic data, or are not suit-able for room acoustics research. This paper presents the GIR Dataset, a dataset of 920'712 real Impulse Responses (IRs) of 312 architectural geometries for the study of early reflections from diffusive surfaces. The paper provides a detailed description of the GIR Dataset's content and an ML use-case example. The dataset and the code described in this paper are open-sourced. (c) 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

This paper presents a quantitative study of the effects of maximum capable force magnitude of a haptic interface on the haptic perception of detail. Specifically, the haptic perception of detail is characterized by identification, detection, and discrimination of round and square cross-section ridges, in addition to corner detection tests. Test results indicate that performance, measured as a percent correct score in the perception experiments, improves in a nonlinear fashion as the maximum allowable level of force in the simulation increases. Further, all test subjects appeared to reach a limit in their perception capabilities at maximum-force output levels of 3-4 N, while the hardware was capable of 10 N of maximum continuous force output. These results indicate that haptic interface hardware may be able to convey sufficient perceptual information to the user with relatively low levels of force feedback. The data is compiled to aid those who wish to design a stylus-type haptic interface to meet certain requirements for the display of physical detail within a haptic simulation.

Head-mounted displays (HMDs) allow users to observe virtual environments (VEs) from an egocentric perspective. However, several experiments have provided evidence that egocentric distances are perceived as compressed in VEs relative to the real world. Recent experiments suggest that the virtual view frustum set for rendering the VE has an essential impact on the user's estimation of distances. In this article we analyze if distance estimation can be improved by calibrating the view frustum for a given HMD and user. Unfortunately, in an immersive virtual reality (VR) environment, a full per user calibration is not trivial and manual per user adjustment often leads to mini-or magnification of the scene. Therefore, we propose a novel per user calibration approach with optical see-through displays commonly used in augmented reality (AR). This calibration takes advantage of a geometric scheme based on 2D point - 3D line correspondences, which can be used intuitively by inexperienced users and requires less than a minute to complete. The required user interaction is based on taking aim at a distant target marker with a close marker, which ensures non-planar measurements covering a large area of the interaction space while also reducing the number of required measurements to five. We found the tendency that a calibrated view frustum reduced the average distance underestimation of users in an immersive VR environment, but even the correctly calibrated view frustum could not entirely compensate for the distance underestimation effects.

Research has shown that creating environments in which social cues are present (social agency) benefits learning. One way to create these environments is to incorporate a virtual human as a pedagogical agent in computer-based learning environments. However, essential questions remain about virtual human design, such as what voice should the virtual human use to communicate. Furthermore, to date research in the education literature around virtual humans has largely ignored one potentially salient construct - trust. This study examines how the quality of a virtual human's voice influences learning, perceptions, and trust in the virtual human. Results of on an online study show that the voice quality did not significantly influence learning, but it did influence trust and learners' other perceptions of the virtual human. This study, consistent with recent work around the voice effect, questions the efficacy of the voice effect and highlights areas of research around trust to further extend social agency theory in virtual human based learning environments.

In order to meet increasing social demand for atypical buildings and spaces, architects must be able to design an atypically shaped building. However, such design outcomes and processes often ignore the central element of architecture-namely, the human factor. In this context, virtual users (VUsers) are regarded as a suitable solution to this problem. In the previous field research, we investigated users' behaviors in atypical architectural spaces and the psychological reasons of behaviors. In this study, we focused on the computerization and systematic integration of the results of the previous research in order to develop a technology that automatically creates a space where user behavior can be expressed in atypical architectural designs and where VUsers can exhibit psychologically appropriate behaviors. This study suggests how to create the appropriate trigger spots, trigger viewpoints, and behavioral areas which guide VUsers' autonomous behavior in the virtual environment. We also integrated the results of this study into ActoViz, a user-behavior simulation system. Based on this study, further research will advance ActoViz, a human behavior simulation system based on intelligent agents which can behave freely within the designed atypical architectural geometry.

Smart eyewear and Augmented Reality technology have been examined closely in the scientific community to provide vision rehabilitation to people with visual impairments as well as augmented vision to people with and without visual impairments for various application scenarios and contexts of use. However, current systems lack flexibility in the configuration and customization of the features and functionalities they present to their users, as we show in this paper by means of a thorough literature review and categorization of prior work on augmented and mediated vision for smart eyewear devices. To address the flexibility aspect that has been missing in prior work, we introduce FlexiSee, an application for smart eyewear devices, such as see-through Augmented Reality glasses and Head-Mounted Mixed Reality Displays, specifically designed to enable flexible configuration, customization, and control of both augmented and mediated vision. FlexiSee achieves this desiderata by implementing visual filters (e.g., color correction, edge highlighting, contrast adjustment, and others) that are coupled with a web-based interface, readily accessible from smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and other devices with web browsers, where authorized users can specify and apply custom parameters for the visual filters implemented by FlexiSee. We also introduce FlexiSee-DS, a three-dimensional design space for FlexiSee-like applications, that includes mediation & augmentation, user categories, and control design dimensions to specify a variety of FlexiSee-like systems. We show how the dimensions of FlexiSee-DS were applied to inform the design of our FlexiSee system, and we highlight and focus on the distinction between primary users and vision monitors and assistants, where the latter two categories represent new types of users for augmented and mediated vision that have various degrees of control, from their remote locations, over the visual reality delivered to and perceived by the primary users of smart eyewear devices. We conduct a user study to understand the perception of vision monitors and assistants regarding our new FlexiSee concept and system, and we report empirical results about usability aspects (e.g., we found an average SUS score of 75.3 and high ratings for the perceived usefulness of FlexiSee) as well as user feedback and suggestions to inform further developments of FlexiSee-like systems and applications.

This paper describes two psychophysical experiments which were conducted to evaluate the influence of the Control/Display (C/D) ratio on the perception of mass of manipulated objects in Virtual Environments (VE). In both experiments, a discrimination task was used in which participants were asked to identify the heavier object between two virtual balls. Participants could weigh each ball via a haptic interface and look at its synthetic display on a computer screen. Unknown to the participants, two parameters varied between each trial: the difference of mass between the balls and the C/D ratio used in the visual display when weighing the comparison ball. The data collected demonstrated that the C/D ratio significantly influenced the result of the mass discrimination task and sometimes even reversed it. The absence of gravity force lamely increased this effect. These results suggest that if the visual motion of a manipulated virtual object is amplified when compared to the actual motion of the user's hand (i.e. if the C/D ratio used is smaller than 1), the user tends to feel that the mass of the object decreases. Thus, decreasing or amplifying the motions of the user in a VE can strongly modify the perception of haptic proper-ties of objects that he/she manipulates. Designers of virtual environments could use these results for Simplification considerations and also to avoid potential perceptual aberrations.

This article presents two studies oil the following questions: (a) which physical properties of environments influence impressions of spaciousness? and (b) does it make a difference whether the environments are shown as static images or as dynamic virtual reality models? Work oil the first question was motivated by the fact that lack of spaciousness can be a strong ambient stressor and the hope that, if suitably designed, spaces can seem larger than they actually are and thus space as perceived can be enhanced without recourse to the very expensive solution of constructing an actually larger space. Work on the second question was motivated by the professional need to predict peoples' responses to future buildings as efficiently as possible. Virtual reality programs are currently readily available, but are they cost effective? Study 1 indicated that, for the factors Of floor area, occlusion, and light, impressions of spaciousness could indeed be modified without recourse to making larger spaces. Study 2 indicated that, with appropriate choice of viewpoints,findings regarding spaciousness obtained from static simulations corresponded highly with findings obtained from virtual reality models. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

3D sketching in virtual reality (VR) provides an immersive drawing experience for designs. However, due to the lack of depth perception cues in VR, scaffolding surfaces that constrain strokes to 2D are usually used as visual guides to reduce the difficulty of drawing accurate strokes. When the dominant hand is occupied by the pen tool, the efficiency of scaffolding-based sketching can be improved by using gesture input to reduce the idleness of the non-dominant hand. This paper presents GestureSurface, a bi-manual interface that uses non-dominant hand performing gestures to operate scaffolding and the other hand drawing with controller. We designed a set of non-dominant gestures to create and manipulate scaffolding surfaces, which are assembled by automatic combination based on five predefined primitive surfaces. We evaluated GestureSurface through a 20-person user study and found that the method of scaffolding-based sketching using non-dominant hand has the advantages of high efficiency and low fatigue.

Virtual reality (VR) is gaining mainstream attention, but little is known about the effects of VR advertising (VR ad). This study examined 360-degree video-based advertising, which presented an entire view of the scene and allowed users to pan around the view interactively. In particular, the study sought to answer the following questions: (a) does the effect of VR ad vary when it is viewed with different media devices?; (b) what is the effect of virtual representation of the self (VRS) in VR ad?; and (c) does self-presence mediate the association between VRS and the user's experience with an advertised brand? An experiment (N = 203) was conducted using a 2 (VRS: present vs. absent) x 3 (media devices: smartphone vs. computer vs. head-mounted display) between-subjects design. Primary findings indicate that absence of VRS in VR ad had positive effects on users' liking the ad and favorable attitude toward the advertised brand. Self-presence was found to be a significant mediator that explains why absence of VRS led to favorable experiences. The study did not find any significant difference on VR ad experiences across media devices. Theoretical and practical implications of VR ad were discussed.

Augmented reality (AR) is a new technology in which various virtual elements are incorporated into the user's perception of the real world. The most significant aspect of AR is that the virtual elements add relevant and helpful information to the real scene. AR shares some important characteristics with virtual reality as applied in clinical psychology. However, AR offers additional features that might be crucial for treating certain problems. An AR system designed to treat insect phobia has been used for treating phobia of small animals, and positive preliminary data about the global efficacy of the system have been obtained. However, it is necessary to determine the capacity of similar AR systems and their elements that are designed to evoke anxiety in participants; this is achieved by testing the correspondence between the inclusion of feared stimuli and the induction of anxiety. The objective of the present work is to validate whether the stimuli included in the AR-Insect Phobia system are capable of inducing anxiety in six participants diagnosed with cockroach phobia. Results support the adequacy of each element of the system in inducing anxiety in all participants.

Soft pneumatic displays have shown to provide compelling soft haptic feedback. However, they have rarely been tested in Virtual Reality applications, while we are interested in their potential for haptic feedback in the metaverse. Therefore, we designed a fully soft Pneumatic Unit Cell (PUC) and implemented it in a VR button task, in which users could directly use their hands for interaction. Twelve participants were asked to enter six-digit sequences, while being presented with PUC feedback, vibration feedback (VT), or no haptic feedback. Metrics on task performance, kinematics and cognitive load were collected. The results show that both vibration and PUC feedback resulted in participants pressing through the back of buttons less. The kinematic data showed that participants moved more smoothly during PUC feedback compared to vibration feedback. These effects were also reflected in the questionnaire data: participants felt more successful when using either PUCs or VTs, but they perceived the lowest level of stress when using PUCs. Feedback preference ratings also showed that PUC was the most preferred kind of feedback. Concluding, our array of metrics confirm that PUCs are good alternatives for haptic feedback in VR tasks in which electromechanical vibration motors typically excel: creating virtual button clicks. Z8 0

This paper examines the use of augmented reality technology in the design of packaging for takeaway food to assist in marketing. The research is divided into three studies for progressive investigation and analysis. Study 1 collected 375,859 negative evaluations of food delivery from the Internet and explored the main reasons that may have impacted the user's evaluation by Latent Dirichlet Allocation topic modeling. Study 2 evaluated the effectiveness of augmented reality packaging by surveying 165 subjects and comparing it with traditional packaging. We conducted a survey of 1603 subjects in Study 3 and used the technology incentive model (TIM) to analyze how augmented reality technology positively impacts food delivery marketing. It has been established that packaging will influence the negative perception of consumers about buying and eating takeout food. Specifically, augmented reality technology can improve negative evaluations by providing a more conducive user experience than traditional packaging. According to our findings, augmented reality technology has improved the consumers' perception of interaction, perceived vividness, and novelty experience, and achieved the aim of promoting takeaway food retail by improving negative evaluations posted by users.

Mid-air interaction is one of the promising interaction modalities in virtual reality (VR) due to its merits in naturalness and intuitiveness, but the interaction suffers from the lack of haptic feedback as no force or vibrotactile feedback can be provided in mid-air without extra devices. As a breakthrough to compensate for this insufficiency, the application of pseudo-haptic features which create the visuo-haptic illusion without actual physical haptic stimulus can be explored. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effect of four pseudohaptic features: proximity feedback, protrusion, hit effect, and penetration blocking on user experience for free-hand mid-air button interaction in VR. We conducted a user study on 21 subjects to collect user ratings on various aspects of user experience while users were freely interacting with 16 buttons with different combinations of four features. Results indicated that all investigated features significantly improved user experience in terms of haptic illusion, embodiment, sense of reality, spatiotemporal perception, satisfaction, and hedonic quality. In addition, protrusion and hit effect were more beneficial in comparison with the other two features. It is recommended to utilize the four proposed pseudo-haptic features in 3D user interfaces (UIs) to make users feel more pleased and amused, but caution is needed when using proximity feedback together with other features because it can be distracting. The findings of this study could be helpful for VR developers and UI designers in providing better interactive buttons in the 3D interfaces.

Since future mobility will change into mixed traffic, the communication approach of automated vehicles should consider multiple human receivers. This virtual reality study investigates the external communication of an automated vehicle in interactions with multiple pedestrians. Involving 42 participants, the study explores the impact of a simulated pedestrian group at the roadside, a seldom-explored aspect in current research on human-vehicle interactions. Results reveal a significant influence of the additional pedestrian group on participants' behaviors and perceptions, emphasizing the need for nuanced communication strategies in automated vehicle design. This paper contributes to understanding social factors in automated vehicle interactions, providing valuable insights for future research and the development of human-centric automated vehicle communication systems.

Conveying the quality of garments through media as in the physical store is demanding. This study proposes the design of a VR interface that aims to convey outerwear quality, featuring the 3D model animated through physical simulation. To measure the effectiveness of this interface, it is tested simultaneously with its corresponding desktop counterpart, with the photo gallery of the product, in a within-subject analysis on 50 users. Results show that perceived quality of products changes between the experiences. Moreover, in VR visual content was found to be more significant for the quality assessment than written information.

This study proposes a modeling method that can effectively generate multiple diverse digital trees for creating immersive virtual landscape based on virtual reality and an optimization method for real-time rendering. The proposed method simplifies a process of procedures from growth of tree models to the generation of the three-dimensional branch geometric model. Here, the procedural branch graph (PBG) algorithm is proposed, which simultaneously and effectively generates diverse trees that have a similar branch pattern. Moreover, the optimization method is designed in a polygon-based branch model which controls the resolution of tree models according to the distance from the camera to generate a tree model structure that is appropriate for an immersive system based on virtual reality. Finally, a virtual reality system is established based on the Oculus SDK (Software Development Kit) and Unity3D engine. In this process, the image processing-based pixel to tree (PTT) method is proposed as a technique for easily and efficiently generating a virtual landscape by allocating multiple trees on terrain. An immersive virtual landscape that has a stereoscopic perception and spatial impression is created through the proposed method and whether it can deliver experience of nature in virtual reality to the users was checked through an experiment.

Environmental awareness and technological advancements for self-driving cars are close to making autonomous vehicles (AV) a reality in everyday scenarios and a part of smart cities' transportation systems. The perception of safety and trust towards AVs of passengers and other agents in the urban scenario, being pedestrians, cyclists, scooter drivers or car drivers, is of primary importance and the theme of investigation of many research groups. Driver-to-driver communication channels as much as car-to-driver human-machine interfaces (HMI) are well established and part of normal training and experience. The situation is different when users must cope with driverless and autonomous vehicles, both as passengers and as agents sharing the same urban domain. This research focuses on the new challenges of connected driverless vehicles, investigating an emerging topic, namely the language of driving (LoD) between these machines and humans participating in traffic scenarios. This work presents the results of a field study conducted at Tallinn University Technology campus with the ISEAUTO autonomous driving shuttle, including interviews with 176 subjects communicating using LoD. Furthermore, this study combines expert focus group interviews to build a joint base of needs and requirements for AVs in public spaces. Based on previous studies and questionnaire results, we established the hypotheses that we can enhance physical survey results using experimental scenarios with VR/AR tools to allow the fast prototyping of different external and internal HMIs, facilitating the assessment of communication efficacy, evaluation of usability, and impact on the users. The aim is to point out how we can enhance AV design and LoD communications using XR tools. The scenarios were chosen to be inclusive and support the needs of different demographics while at the same time determining the limitations of surveys and real-world experimental scenarios in LoD testing and design for future pilots.

Serious gaming often requires high level of realism for training and learning purposes. Haptic technology has been proved to be useful in many applications with an additional perception modality complementary to the audio and the vision. It provides novel user experience to enhance the immersion of virtual reality with a physical control-layer. This survey focuses on the haptic technology and its applications in serious gaming. Several categories of related applications are listed and discussed in details, primarily on haptics acts as cognitive aux and main component in serious games design. We categorize haptic devices into tactile, force feedback and hybrid ones to suit different haptic interfaces, followed by description of common haptic gadgets in gaming. Haptic modeling methods, in particular, available SDKs or libraries either for commercial or academic usage, are summarized. We also analyze the existing research difficulties and technology bottleneck with haptics and foresee the future research directions.

We present HeadBlaster, a novel wearable technology that creates motion perception by applying ungrounded force to the head to stimulate the vestibular and proprioception sensory systems. Compared to motion platforms that tilt the body, HeadBlaster more closely approximates how lateral inertial and centrifugal forces are felt during real motion to provide more persistent motion perception. In addition, because HeadBlaster only actuates the head rather than the entire body, it eliminates the mechanical motion platforms that users must be constrained to, which improves user mobility and enables room-scale VR experiences. We designed a wearable HeadBlaster system with 6 air nozzles integrated into a VR headset, using compressed air jets to provide persistent, lateral propulsion forces. By controlling multiple air jets, it is able to create the perception of lateral acceleration in 360 degrees. We conducted a series of perception and human-factor studies to quantify the head movement, the persistence of perceived acceleration, and the minimal level of detectable forces. We then explored the user experience of HeadBlaster through two VR applications: a custom surfing game, and a commercial driving simulator together with a commercial motion platform. Study results showed that HeadBlaster provided significantly longer perceived duration of acceleration than motion platforms. It also significantly improved realism and immersion, and was preferred by users compared to using VR alone. In addition, it can be used in conjunction with motion platforms to further augment the user experience.

The distance information is very important to operate a teleoperation robot in the teleoperation system. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to realize a distance man-machine interface, in order to present the distance information. Because the human perceptive distance is different from the actual distance, and also the spatial scale of the real world is different from the virtual world. Therefore, it is very important to measure and analyze human characteristic of distance perception for the man-machine interface of teleoperation systems. In this study the characteristics of human distance perception are measured, and a mathematical model of human distance perception is proposed. The results suggested that the human perceptive distances are larger (smaller) than the actual distances, if with using (not using) tactile information. The experimental results provide useful basic data to design the distance interface of teleoperation systems, and to investigate the human mechanism of distance perception.

Cybersickness continues to bar many individuals from taking full advantage of virtual reality (VR) technology. Previous work has established that navigating virtual terrain with elevation changes poses a significant risk in this regard. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of three cybersickness reduction strategies on users performing a navigation task across virtual elevation-altering terrain. These strategies include static field of view (FOV) reduction, a flat surface approach that disables terrain collision and maintains constant elevation for users, and SmoothRide, a novel technique designed to dampen a user's perception of vertical motion as they travel. To assess the impact of these strategies, we conducted a within-subjects study involving 61 participants. Each strategy was compared against a control condition, where users navigated across terrain without any cybersickness reduction measures in place. Cybersickness data were collected using the Fast Motion Sickness Scale (FMS) and Simulator Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ), along with galvanic skin response (GSR) data. We measured user presence using the IGroup Presence questionnaire (IPQ) and a Single-Item Presence Scale (SIP). Our findings reveal that users experienced significantly lower levels of cybersickness using SmoothRide or FOV reduction. Presence scores reported on the IPQ were statistically similar between SmoothRide and the control condition. Conversely, terrain flattening had adverse effects on user presence scores, and we could not identify a significant effect on cybersickness compared to the control. We demonstrate that SmoothRide is an effective, lightweight, configurable, and easy-to-integrate tool for reducing cybersickness in simulations featuring elevation-altering terrain.

When engaging in joint actions in the real world, each individual achieves unconscious coordination with the other by automatically activating representations of the other's behavior in the motor system. It has been investigated by examining the Social Simon Effect (SSE), which is a spatial stimulus-response interference induced by the presence and active engagement of a co-actor in a joint single response go/nogo task (the joint Simon task). On the other hand, collaborative co-actors are not always perceived in the same way between the real world and virtual reality (VR) as the visual representation of the avatar is thought to affect the perception of others' presence and actions. In order to obtain design guidelines for a virtual environment (VE) that facilitates collaboration between users, this study looked into (1) whether SSE can occur during joint actions of avatars in a VE; and (2) how the visual representation of the co-actor's avatar affects SSE; through the joint Simon task performed by two adjacent avatars. The results showed that SSE was induced when the co-actor's avatar was displayed in full-body or was entirely transparent, but the SSE was weak when only the two hands were visible. These results suggested that participants perceived the full-body avatar as the socially engaged co-actor, representing its motions into their own motor planning. The same phenomenon occurred when the whole body of the co-actor was not visible, which could be attributed to the visibility of response actions and their consequential effects facilitated the occurrence of SSE. In contrast, the hand avatar, with its non-human-like appearance and seeming function independently of the entire body, inhibited the action co-representation process because it might be perceived as an unintentional artificial agent.

In this demonstration we introduce VRSpinning, a seated locomotion approach based around stimulating the user's vestibular system using a rotational impulse to induce the perception of linear self-motion. Currently, most approaches for locomotion in VR use either concepts like teleportation for traveling longer distances or present a virtual motion that creates a visual-vestibular conflict, which is assumed to cause simulator sickness. With our platform we evaluated two designs for using the rotation of a motorized swivel chair to alleviate this, wiggle and impulse. Our evaluation showed that impulse, using short rotation bursts matched with the visual acceleration, can significantly reduce simulator sickness and increase the perception of self-motion compared to no physical motion.

The author designed a computer-mediated social-process simulation that allowed participants to explore potentially threatening dynamics in a safe, player-controlled communication-rich environment and then evaluated its effects. Evaluation methodologies employed include design ethnography, task analyses, usability studies, prototyping, and quantitative evaluation. A quantitative comparison study of intercultural simulations measured perceptions of threatening topics in both face-to-face and computer-mediated settings. It was concluded that the intercultural problem-solving simulation (DomeCityMOO) designed for multi-user learning in a virtual environment may make it easier to learn the essence of cultural identity awareness and intercultural relations skills expressed through one's communication. To date, intercultural realtime simulations are only designed for face-to-face. The DomeCityMOO is the first computer-mediated intercultural, multi-user, realtime simulation designed specifically to address issues of power and identity. The design principles employed in the DomeCityMOO challenge the popular belief that aspects of tacit culture, and intercultural awareness can only be taught successfully face-to-face.

This paper presents an approach for the integration of Virtual Reality (VR) and Computer-Aided Design (CAD). Our general goal is to develop a VR-CAD framework making possible intuitive and direct 3D edition on CAD objects within Virtual Environments (VE). Such a framework can be applied to collaborative part design activities and to immersive project reviews. The cornerstone of our approach is a model that manages implicit editing of CAD objects. This model uses a naming technique of B-Rep components and a set of logical rules to provide straight access to the operators of Construction History Graphs (CHG). Another set of logical rules and the replay capacities of CHG make it possible to modify in real-time the parameters of these operators according to the user's 3D interactions. A demonstrator of our model has been developed on the OpenCASCADE geometric kernel, but we explain how it can be applied to more standard CAD systems such as CATIA. We combined our VR-CAD framework with multimodal immersive interaction (using 6 DoF tracking, speech and gesture recognition systems) to gain direct and intuitive deformation of the objects' shapes within a VE, thus avoiding explicit interactions with the CHG within a classical WIMP interface. In addition, we present several haptic paradigms specially conceptualized and evaluated to provide an accurate perception of B-Rep components and to help the user during his/her 3D interactions. Finally, we conclude on some issues for future researches in the field of VR-CAD integration. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Metaverse applications such as virtual reality (VR) content streaming, require optimal resource allocation strategies for mobile edge computing (MEC) to ensure a high-quality user experience. In contrast to online reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms, which can incur substantial communication overheads and longer delays, the majority of existing works employ offline-trained RL algorithms for resource allocation decisions in MEC systems. However, they neglect the impact of desynchronization between the physical and digital worlds on the effectiveness of the allocation strategy. In this paper, we tackle this desynchronization using a continual RL (CRL) framework that facilitates the resource allocation dynamically for MEC-enabled VR content streaming. We first design a digital twin-empowered edge computing (DTEC) system and formulate a quality of experience (QoE) maximization problem based on attention-based resolution perception. This problem optimizes the allocation of computing and bandwidth resources while adapting the attention-based resolution of the VR content. The CRL framework in DTEC enables adaptive online execution in a time-varying environment. We propose three variants of CRL, namely Continual Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (CDDPG), Prioritized Experience Replay - CDDPG (PER-CDDPG), and Freshness Prioritized Experience Replay - CDDPG (FPER-CDDPG). We evaluate these algorithms, including two other benchmarks, using extensive experiments. FPER-CDDPG shows superior performance in terms of average latency, QoE, and successful delivery rate as well as meeting the hfQoE requirements over long-term execution while ensuring system scalability with the increasing number of users.

We introduce a novel system that allows users to experience the sensation of touch in a computer graphics environment. In this system, the user places his/her hand on an array of pins, which is moved about space on a 6 degree-of-freedom robot arm. The surface of the pins defines a surface in the virtual world. This "virtual hand" can move about the virtual world. When the virtual hand encounters an object in the virtual world; the heights of the pins are adjusted so that they represent the object's shape, surface, and texture. A control system integrates pin and robot arm motions to transmit information about objects in the computer graphics world to the user. It also allows the user to edit, change and move the virtual objects, shapes and textures. This system provides a general framework for touching, manipulating, and modifying objects in a 3-D computer graphics environment, which may be useful in a wide range of applications, including computer games, computer aided design systems, and immersive virtual worlds.

This study investigates the effects of fruits and vegetables (FaVs) abnormality on consumer perceptions and purchasing behavior. For the purposes of this study, a virtual grocery store was created with a fresh FaVs section, where 142 participants became immersed using an Oculus Rift DK2 Head-Mounted Display (HMD) software. Participants were presented either "normal", "slightly" misshapen, "moderately" misshapen or "severely" misshapen" FaVs. The study findings indicate that shoppers tend to purchase a similar number of FaVs whatever their level of deformity. However, perceptions of the appearance and quality of the FaVs depend on the degree of abnormality. "Moderately" misshapen FaVs are perceived as significantly better than those that are "heavily" misshapen but also "slightly" misshapen (except for the appearance of fruits).

As virtual classrooms, traditional physical classroom environments are transformed into flexible virtual environments, allowing customization of environmental elements to enhance student learning. This study explored the effects of window settings in virtual classrooms on learning experiences of students. Utilizing a within-subjects design, we simulated a virtual classroom environment with seven unique window settings and varied its view content (nature vs. urban) and time of day (daytime, sunset, and night). We also simulated a windowless condition. Thirty-five university students participated in the study and performed subjective evaluations and cognitive tasks. Moreover, their physiological responses were recorded using electroencephalogram measurements. The results indicated that environments with windows increased the perception of spaciousness and promoted a state of relaxed alertness, as evidenced by increased fast alpha brainwave activity. In contrast, settings without windows or with urban views increased the sense of presence. Daytime views positively affected valence, motivation, spaciousness, and concentration, whereas nighttime views were the least preferred. No significant differences were observed in cognitive task performance across the different conditions. These findings underscore the necessity of customizing virtual learning environments to meet individual user needs. By allowing students to adjust their virtual environments, educators and space designers can create more flexible and personalized virtual-reality educational spaces, ultimately improving learning outcomes.

Modeling pedestrian collisions has been difficult due to the rarity of such events and the high number of locations with zero collision frequency. Traditional collision data is reactive and may not identify risks until after injuries or fatalities have occurred. The supplement of the traditional collision data analysis approach with user perceptions of safety is necessary to provide a proactive approach to pedestrian safety. This study aims to take a step forward and collect data on pedestrian safety perceptions using virtual reality (VR) technology. Seventy participants were recruited and had to view pre-recorded 360-degree videos of intersections using a VR headset and report their perceptions of intersection design, traffic, and environmental factors from a safety point of view. Safety levels were analyzed on a Likert scale, and two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed to understand the variations in the average safety perceptions of intersections between participants during the day and night, as well as between men and women respondents. The study found that participants' perceptions of safety varied depending on the time of day at the intersection, with the majority feeling less safe at night. The results suggest the importance of understanding people's perceptions of the walking environment and collision risk in designing cost-effective pedestrian safety initiatives that match both perceived and actual levels of safety on the road. Overall, the study demonstrates the potential benefits of using user-centered approaches and timely feedback on changes in pedestrian safety, which can provide a wealth of data to support proactive pedestrian safety planning.

This study analyzes the effect of using a virtual reality (VR) game as a complementary tool to improve users' rhythmic performance and perception in a remote and self-learning environment. In recent years, remote learning has gained importance due to various everyday situations; however, the effects of using VR in such situations for individual and self-learning have yet to be evaluated. In music education, learning processes are usually heavily dependent on face-to-face communication with a teacher and are based on a formal or informal curriculum. The aim of this study is to investigate the potential of gamified VR learning and its influence on users' rhythmic sensory and perceptual abilities. We developed a drum-playing game based on a tower defense scenario designed to improve four aspects of rhythmic perceptual skills in elementary school children with various levels of music learning experience. In this study, 14 elementary school children received Meta Quest 2 headsets for individual use in a 14-day individual training session. The results showed a significant increase in their rhythmical skills through an analysis of their rhythmic performance before and after the training sessions. In addition, the experience of playing the VR game and using the HMD setup was also assessed, highlighting some of the challenges of currently available affordable headsets for gamified learning scenarios.

With the rapid development of computer network technology, the advantages of virtual reality technology in the field of instant messaging are becoming more and more significant. Virtual reality technology plays an important role in communication networks, including enhanced resource utilization, device redundancy, immersion, interactivity, conceptualization, and holography. In this paper, we use the basic theory of Restricted Boltzmann Machine to establish a semisupervised spatio-temporal feature model through the animation capture data style recognition problem. The bottom layer can be pretrained with a large amount of unlabeled data to enhance the model's feature perception capability of animation data, and then train the high-level supervised model with the labeled data to finally obtain the model parameters that can be used for the recognition task. The layer-by-layer training method makes the model have good parallelism, that is, when the layer-by-layer training method makes the model well parallelized, that is, when the bottom features cannot effectively represent the animation features, such as overfitting or underfitting, only the bottom model needs to be retrained, while the top model parameters can be kept unchanged. Simulation experiments show that the design assistance time of this paper's scheme for animation is reduced by 10 minutes compared to baseline.

Haptic feedback is known to improve 3D interaction in virtual environments but current haptic interfaces remain complex and tailored to desktop interaction. In this paper, we introduce the-ElasticArm", a novel approach for incorporating haptic feedback in immersive virtual environments in a simple and cost-effective way. The Elastic-Arm is based on a body-mounted elastic armature that links the user's hand to her shoulder. As a result, a progressive resistance force is perceived when extending the arm. This haptic feedback can be incorporated with various 3D interaction techniques and we illustrate the possibilities offered by our system through several use cases based on well-known examples such as the Bubble technique, Redirected Touching and pseudo-haptics. These illustrative use cases provide users with haptic feedback during selection and navigation tasks but they also enhance their perception of the virtual environment. Taken together, these examples suggest that the Elastic-Arm can be transposed in numerous applications and with various 3D interaction metaphors in which a mobile hap tic feedback can be beneficial. It could also pave the way for the design of new interaction techniques based on-human-scale" egocentric haptic feedback.

In the context of Industry 4.0, Augmented Reality occupies an important role thanks to its unique capability to enhance the perception of the real world with virtual information. Taking advantage of this capability, the paper presents a handheld mobile Augmented Reality tool that supports manufacturing and production workers and engineers to easily check on-site the ongoing operations carried out in the manufacturing environment for the tubing and piping assembly. The tool runs on a modern tablet and performs an augmented reality visualization of the 3D models, as defined in the project plan, on the corresponding physical objects. In this manner the user can easily check the presence of assembly errors or detect design discrepancies. The level of acceptance of the proposed handheld mobile Augmented Reality tool has been assessed by means of a preliminary test carried out with representative users on a real case study. Results from the experiment are presented and discussed in the paper.

Developing social skills like elevator pitch requires being situated within authentic activities and contexts, which is difficult to achieve on a daily basis. In this work, we explore whether an artificial agent with embodied feedback in virtual reality (VR) can foster a situated learning experience. Previous works on computer-mediated feedback have shown that VR can foster oral presentation competence for preuniversity and junior undergraduates through delivering feedback. However, it is unclear how well the learning experiences are and how well students perceive an artificial coach in VR, especially for senior undergraduates and postgraduates seeking job and research opportunities. To inform the design of such a system, we conducted interviews with experts and observed real elevator pitches. We then designed a proof-of-concept VR coaching system with three embodied feedback strategies: immediate, after-action, and the combination of both. Through a between-subject experiment with 40 participants, we studied learners' perceptions under the embodied feedback. We found that receiving embodied feedback can create a stronger sense of cognitive apprenticeship, i.e., coaching and helping from experts, and help improve the perception of the artificial agent and the effect of learning. We further investigated the pros and cons of different strategies and discussed room for improvement.

This article reviews the technology behind creating artificial touch sensations and the relevant aspects of human touch. We focus on the design and control of haptic devices and discuss the best practices for generating distinct and effective touch sensations. Artificial haptic sensations can present information to users, help them complete a task, augment or replace the other senses, and add immersiveness and realism to virtual interactions. We examine these applications in the context of different haptic feedback modalities and the forms that haptic devices can take. We discuss the prior work, limitations, and design considerations of each feedback modality and individual haptic technology. We also address the need to consider the neuroscience and perception behind the human sense of touch in the design and control of haptic devices.

It is generally accepted that the use of natural interaction provides a positive impact in Virtual Reality (VR) applications. Therefore, it is important to understand what is the best way to integrate and visualize this feature in VR. For this reason, this paper presents a comparative study of the integration of natural hand interaction in two immersive VR systems: a Cave Audio Visual Experience (CAVE) system -where users' real hands are visible- and a non-see-through Head-Mounted Display (HMD) system -where only a virtual representation of the hands is possible-. In order to test the suitability of using this type of interaction in a CAVE and compare it to an HMD, we raise six research questions related to task performance, usability and perception differences regarding natural hand interaction with these two systems. To answer these questions, we designed an experiment where users have to complete a pick-and-place task with virtual balls and a text-typing task with virtual keyboards. In both systems, the same tracking technology, based on a Leap Motion device, was used. To the best of our knowledge this is the first academic work addressing a comparison of this type. Objective and subjective data were collected during the experiments. The results show that the HMD has a performance, preference and usability advantage over the CAVE with respect to the integration of natural hand interaction. Nevertheless, the results also show that the CAVE system can be, as well, successfully used in combination with an optical hand tracking device.

Emotions are multifaceted phenomena that affect our behaviour, perception, and cognition. Increasing evidence indicates that induction mechanisms play a crucial role in triggering emotions by simulating the sensations required for an experimental design. Over the years, many reviews have evaluated a passive elicitation mechanism where the user is an observer, ignoring the importance of self-relevance in emotional experience. So, in response to the gap in the literature, this study intends to explore the possibility of using Virtual Reality (VR) as an active mechanism for emotion induction. VR can simulate controlled environments with high immersion, presence, and interaction to induce intense emotions. Therefore, researchers can evaluate emotional experiences in a realistic context. For the success and quality of research settings, VR must select the appropriate material to effectively evoke emotions. Therefore, in the present review, we evaluated to what extent VR virtual environments, videos, games, tasks, avatar, images, and 360-degree panoramas can elicit emotions. Further, we present public datasets, discuss challenges and recommendations, and review emotion-sensing interfaces related to VR research. The conclusions reveal the VR's potential to evoke emotions effectively and naturally by generating motivational and empathy mechanisms, which makes it an ecologically valid paradigm to study emotions.

As virtual environments-in the form of videogames and augmented and virtual reality experiences-become more popular, it is important to ensure that they are accessible to all. Previous research has identified echolocation as a useful interaction approach to enable people with visual impairment to access virtual environments. In this article, we further investigate the usefulness of echolocation to explore virtual environments. We follow a participatory design approach that comprised a focus group session coupled with two fast prototyping and evaluation iterations. During the focus group session, expert echolocators produced a series of seven design recommendations, of which we implemented and trialed four. Our trials revealed that the use of ambient sounds, the ability to place landmarks, directional control, and the ability to use pre-recorded mouth-clicks produced by expert echolocators improved the overall experience of our participants by facilitating the detection of openings and obstacles. The recommendations presented and evaluated in this article may help to develop virtual environments that support a broader range of users while recognising the value of the lived experience of people with disability as a source of knowledge. Z8 0

Virtual 3D assets, i.e., 3D models that form the basis of virtual environments, products, and goods, are essential for the creation of a future metaverse. However, we have limited knowledge about the market dynamics in which virtual 3D assets are traded and the indicators that influence their value and pricing - and thus the purchasing mechanisms. The present study draws on multi-attribute utility and value- and competition-informed pricing theory to determine what drives the purchase of virtual 3D assets using secondary data from the marketplace Sketchfab. The empirical analysis indicates that the sellers' value perception of virtual 3D assets contradicts the users' interest and that organizational sellers outperform individual sellers by relying to a higher degree on competition- and value-informed pricing. Based on our findings, we identify implications for both organizational and individual sellers to refine their pricing strategies in accordance with the unique dynamics of 3D virtual asset marketplaces.

With the continuous development of digital technology, the widespread use of virtual spokespersons to promote city images is becoming increasingly prevalent. This study responds to this trend by employing a factor analysis and entropy weight methodology to explore the different dimensions and priorities in shaping the image of virtual city spokespersons in China. The aim is to offer insights into the design strategies and directions for shaping the image of virtual city spokespersons. For the research, we first conducted a literature review and semi-structured interviews to investigate the requirements of users in mainland China and Hong Kong regarding the image shaping of virtual city spokespersons. Building upon this groundwork, a questionnaire was designed and distributed, and it successfully gathered 512 valid responses. Subsequently, a factor analysis was utilized to identify eight key dimensions in shaping the images of Chinese virtual city spokespersons: "Design elements", "Anthropomorphism", "Evolutionary", "Emotionalization", "Narrativity", "Culturalism", "Interactivity", and "Reliability". Then, the entropy weighting method was applied to analyze the weights of each indicator within these dimensions. The results revealed that "Design elements" have the highest priority in shaping the image of virtual city spokespersons, followed by "Anthropomorphism", "Emotionalization", "Evolutionary", "Culturalism", "Narrativity", "Reliability", and "Interactivity". Based on these findings, a series of design optimization strategies are proposed, including but not limited to shaping visually appealing images aligned with user perceptions, establishing emotional connections with users, and meeting the functional experience needs of users. These strategies not only contribute to the image shaping of virtual city spokespersons, but also provide vital guidance for innovative directions in promoting the publicity and marketing of Chinese cities.

Virtual reality (VR) has made its way into mainstream psychological research in the last two decades. This technology, with its unique ability to simulate complex, real situations and contexts, offers researchers unprecedented opportunities to investigate human behavior in well controlled designs in the laboratory. One important application of VR is the investigation of pathological processes in mental disorders, especially anxiety disorders. Research on the processes underlying threat perception, fear, and exposure therapy has shed light on more general aspects of the relation between perception and emotion. Being by its nature virtual, i.e., simulation of reality, VR strongly relies on the adequate selection of specific perceptual cues to activate emotions. Emotional experiences in turn are related to presence, another important concept in VR, which describes the user's sense of being in a VR environment. This paper summarizes current research into perception of fear cues, emotion, and presence, aiming at the identification of the most relevant aspects of emotional experience in VR and their mutual relations. A special focus lies on a series of recent experiments designed to test the relative contribution of perception and conceptual information on fear in VR. This strand of research capitalizes on the dissociation between perception (bottom up input) and conceptual information (top-down input) that is possible in VR. Further, we review the factors that have so far been recognized to influence presence, with emotions (e.g., fear) being the most relevant in the context of clinical psychology. Recent research has highlighted the mutual influence of presence and fear in VR, but has also traced the limits of our current understanding of this relationship. In this paper, the crucial role of perception on eliciting emotional reactions is highlighted, and the role of arousal as a basic dimension of emotional experience is discussed. An interoceptive attribution model of presence is suggested as a first step toward an integrative framework for emotion research in VR. Gaps in the current literature and future directions are outlined.

A higher sense of presence and interaction capability may be provided to a user when adopting 3D stereoscopic visualization compared to 2D viewing. Depth perception and task performance may however greatly vary for different display technologies, while available budget and application context constraint system design and approach selection. This work intends to contribute in assessing benefits of stereoscopic viewing for different virtual reality (VR) technologies. The investigation is performed under different conditions and it uses both synthetic and real images. The investigation concentrates on few aspects: comparative evaluation of VR facilities, the influence of selective visual attention on robot tele-drive, performance in collision avoidance and distance estimation. Results from a set of test trials run on 3 different VR facilities in 5 different configurations, emphasize some tendencies and represent a base for further investigations.

Recent advancements in virtual reality and augmented reality call for light-weight and compliant haptic interfaces to maximize the task-performance interactivity with the virtual or extended environment. Noting this, we propose a haptic glove using a tendon-driven compliant robotic mechanism. Our proposed interface can provide haptic feedback to two fingers of a user, an index finger and a thumb. It can provide both cutaneous and kinesthetic feedback to the fingers by using the tendon-driven system. Each actuator is paired with a force sensor to exert the desired tension accurately. In order to optimize the perception of the kinesthetic feedback, we propose a perception-based kinesthetic feedback distribution strategy. We experimentally measured the force perception weight for peripheral interphalangeal (PIP) and metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints. We observed no significant difference in the force perception between the two joints. Then, based on the obtained weights, our proposed force distribution method calculates the force for each joint. We also evaluated the effect of additional cutaneous feedback to the kinesthetic feedback, on the force perception at the fingertip. The experimental result has shown that additional cutaneous feedback has significantly increased the sensitivity of the human perception. Finally, we evaluated our proposed system and force distribution algorithm by conducting a human subject test. The experimental result indicates that the availability of the cutaneous feedback significantly improved the perceived realism and acuity of the contact force.

Left-right confusion occurs across the entire population and refers to an impeded ability to distinguish between left and right. In medicine this phenomenon is particularly relevant as left and right are always defined with respect to the patient's point of view, i.e. the doctor's right is the patient's left. Traditional anatomy learning resources such as illustrations in textbooks naturally consider this by consistently depicting the anatomy of a patient as seen by an observer standing in front. Augmented Reality Magic Mirrors (MM) are one example of novel anatomy teaching resources and show a user's digital mirror image augmented with virtual anatomy on a large display. As left and right appear to be reversed in such MM setups, similar to real-world physical mirrors, intriguing perceptual questions arise: is a non-reversing MM (NRMM) the more natural choice for the task of anatomy learning and do users even learn anatomy the wrong way with a traditional, reversing MM (RMM)? In this paper, we explore the perceptual differences between an NRMM and RMM design and present the first empirical study comparing these two concepts for the purpose of anatomy learning. Experimental results demonstrate that medical students perform significantly better at identifying anatomically correct placement of virtual organs in an NRMM. However, interaction was significantly more difficult compared to an RMM. We explore the underlying psychological effects and discuss the implications of using an NRMM on user perception, knowledge transfer, and interaction. This study is relevant for the design of future MM systems in the medical domain and lessons-learned can be transferred to other application domains.

Sensory function is essential for functional post-stroke recovery and control of basic hand movements like grasping. Despite this fact, therapy focuses strongly on motor aspects of rehabilitation, requiring active participation and thus excluding stroke patients with severe paresis. The aim of our novel therapeutic approach combining virtual reality, based on clinically proven mirror therapy, and tendon vibration of hand and wrist muscles is to induce neuroplastic changes leading to improved hand function. This paper presents the further development and evaluation of a robotic device, which can apply vibrations at precise locations on the finger flexor tendons to create illusions of extension movements and visualize the movements with a virtual hand. A preliminary study including 16 healthy subjects investigated the influence of the virtual reality on the perception of proprioceptive illusory movements. The experimental results provided evidence that the addition of the virtual reality enhanced the perception of the illusory movement generated by tendon vibration, by inducing movements with significantly higher extension (+4.5%, p < 0.05). Furthermore, the virtual reality allowed a better controlled temporal elicitation of the illusion. These findings indicate the potential of this novel strategy for a more effective therapy, especially for severely impaired patients.

The rapid population growth and urbanization trends pose challenges in creating livable spaces for the growing global population. This research explores the integration of robotic furniture (RF), a type of architectural robotics (AR) into buildings to address this issue. By utilizing virtual reality (VR) technology, the study aims to understand how people respond to RF in comparison to traditional architectural walkthroughs and how RF affects their acceptance. The problem that needs to be solved with this VR platform is to overcome the limitations of traditional design and evaluation methods in architecture and interior design of RF. A working prototype of a virtual world is developed with different RF such as beds, walls, desks, and different RF configurations. A survey is created to assess user perceptions of RF in buildings, this survey focuses on user engagement, interaction, customization, immersion, and satisfaction using a Likert scale rating system. The findings highlight the high level of engagement and immersion experienced by users, as well as the significance of customization and exploration of different apartment configurations. Users expressed satisfaction and enjoyment with the VR experience, emphasizing the potential applications of RF in real-world scenarios. An ANOVA statistical analysis was made to evaluate the differences between participants with prior VR experience and no prior experience, showing that the users with prior VR experience valued the VR platform more and praised the use of RF in the design processes.

Augmented reality (AR) technologies are becoming increasingly popular. However, studies regarding the usability of AR interfaces are scarce. This study aims to derive the optimal usability design of the AR interface by analyzing the performance of 12 interface conditions (2 button sizes x 3 distances x 2 interaction types). An experiment was conducted using Microsoft HoloLens, in which participants performed button selection tasks with an array of 3 x 3 virtual buttons. The task completion time and the number of errors were measured along with a subjective satisfaction score. The results showed that a clicker-based interaction was more effective in task completion time, the number of errors and user satisfaction than a hand gesture. Furthermore, large buttons required a significantly shorter task completion time than small buttons. There was no significant difference in the number of errors between the two sizes. A distance of at least 80 cm from the eye to the virtual object is most favorable for a good performance. There was a significant difference in the task completion times between 40 cm and 80 cm and between 40 cm and 120 cm. These results can aid the interface designs for AR applications and devices.

Areas of experience allow for the acquisition and consolidation of both existing knowledge and skills. These are significant factors in the training of staff members for companies in the Industry 4.0 area. One of the currently available modern tools used in the teaching process is virtual reality (VR) technology. This technology, due to its high level of immersion and involvement of the different senses, and the need to focus on the performed activities, allows one to develop skills in solving various tasks and problems. The extended VR environment enables the creation of diverse teaching scenarios adapted to the needs of industry. This paper presents the possibility of building training scenarios in the field of digital techniques. The software solution, developed and presented by the authors, uses elements of computer game mechanics and is designed to familiarize students with the idea of digital circuits, their construction, logical implementation and application. This paper also presents a comparison of the features of different forms of education used in teaching digital techniques, as well as a comparison of these forms, from the point of view of the student and his/her perceptions.

Virtual reality (VR) has advanced in medical education and rehabilitation from basic graphical applications due to its ability to generate a virtual three-dimensional (3D) environment. This environment is mostly used to practice professional skills, plan surgery procedures, simulate surgeries, display 3D anatomy, and rehabilitate various disorders. VR has transformed the field of rehabilitation therapy by providing immersive and engaging experiences that go beyond traditional bounds, significantly improving patient care and therapeutic results. Considering the direct impact of VR on the efficacy of the treatment for both therapists and patients, its dual significance for usability and user experience cannot be overstated. The purpose of this article is to determine the synergistic association between VR accessibility and the rehabilitation process, highlighting the significance of VR technology in designing the future of rehabilitation therapy and demonstrating how advancing VR technology can improve therapeutic outcomes despite overcoming obstacles encountered during VR usage. In conclusion, VR offers a personalized, efficient, interesting, and engaging rehabilitative environment for patients, while also assisting therapists in cultivating empathy and efficiency and encouraging innovative approaches in treatment procedures.

Networks are an important means for the representation and analysis of data in a variety of research and application areas. While there are many efficient methods to create layouts for networks to support their visual analysis, approaches for the comparison of networks are still underexplored. Especially when it comes to the comparison of weighted networks, which is an important task in several areas, such as biology and biomedicine, there is a lack of efficient visualization approaches. With the availability of affordable high-quality virtual reality (VR) devices, such as head-mounted displays (HMDs), the research field of immersive analytics emerged and showed great potential for using the new technology for visual data exploration. However, the use of immersive technology for the comparison of networks is still underexplored. With this work, we explore how weighted networks can be visually compared in an immersive VR environment and investigate how visual representations can benefit from the extended 3D design space. For this purpose, we develop different encodings for 3D node-link diagrams supporting the visualization of two networks within a single representation and evaluate them in a pilot user study. We incorporate the results into a more extensive user study comparing node-link representations with matrix representations encoding two networks simultaneously. The data and tasks designed for our experiments are similar to those occurring in real-world scenarios. Our evaluation shows significantly better results for the node-link representations, which is contrary to comparable 2D experiments and indicates a high potential for using VR for the visual comparison of networks.

The development of virtual reality (VR) in enhancing the effectiveness of the learning process, with its interactive, immersive, and intuitive pedagogical environment, has become a necessity for corporations with increasingly complex operations. However, VR users' perceptions, openness and learning effectiveness are seldom comprehensively evaluated, particularly in learning complex industrial operations. In this study, grounded in the technology acceptance model, a moderated mediation model of perceived usefulness, ease of use, openness to experience, and engagement in VR-based learning was developed. The model was empirically validated using responses collected from 321 users who were trained on aircraft and cargo terminal operations powered by a novel VR-based learning platform. A survey to measure openness to experience and a pre-training performance test were carried out, followed by a post-training survey of learners' intrinsic factors, including the influence of perceived usefulness, openness to experience, and attitude towards learning. The study revealed that learners with an open attitude towards experiencing new technology tend to perceive VR technology as a useful platform for training. In addition, the learners with more positive views of VR technology-supported training were more engaged in learning.

Handheld devices like smartphones and tablets have emerged as one of the most promising platforms for Augmented Reality (AR). The increased usage of these portable handheld devices has enabled handheld AR applications to reach the end-users; hence, it is timely and important to seriously consider the user experience of such applications. AR visualizations for occluded objects enable an observer to look through objects. AR visualizations have been predominantly evaluated using Head-Worn Displays (HWDs), handheld devices have rarely been used. However, unless we gain a better understanding of the perceptual and cognitive effects of handheld AR systems, effective interfaces for handheld devices cannot be designed. Similarly, human perception of AR systems in outdoor environments, which provide a higher degree of variation than indoor environments, has only been insufficiently explored. In this paper, we present insights acquired from five experiments we performed using handheld devices in outdoor locations. We provide design recommendations for handheld AR systems equipped with visualizations for occluded objects. Our key conclusions are the following: (1) Use of visualizations for occluded objects improves the depth perception of occluded objects akin to non-occluded objects. (2) To support different scenarios, handheld AR systems should provide multiple visualizations for occluded objects to complement each other. (3) Visual clutter in AR visualizations reduces the visibility of occluded objects and deteriorates depth judgment; depth judgment can be improved by providing clear visibility of the occluded objects. (4) Similar to virtual reality interfaces, both egocentric and exocentric distances are underestimated in handheld AR. (5) Depth perception will improve if handheld AR systems can dynamically adapt their geometric field of view (GFOV) to match the display field of view (DFOV). (6) Large handheld displays are hard to carry and use; however, they enable users to better grasp the depth of multiple graphical objects that are presented simultaneously. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Vibrotactile stimulation has the potential to augment virtual reality experiences for applications from job training and physical therapy to entertainment. At the same time, gaps in the current state of vibrotactile stimulation knowledge persist, particularly in relation to the effects and perceptions of this type of haptic feedback on different parts of the body. In this paper, we present the results from our psychophysics study evaluating the absolute vibration perception threshold values for 55 Hz and 250 Hz vibration signals on the anterior and posterior sides of the wrist, elbow, knee, and ankle joints. In our study (N = 20), we measured perception threshold values using the method of adjustment and staircase method from the field of psychophysics. Results showed participants were able to sense 55 Hz vibrations at significantly lower magnitudes than 250 Hz vibrations. Additionally, both sides of the wrist were significantly more sensitive to vibrations than the majority of the other locations. Future implementations of vibrotactile feedback in virtual reality can use these findings to strategically design vibration signals and select application sites.

Vibrotactile devices are commonly used in applications for sensory substitution or to provide feedback in virtual reality. An important aspect of vibrotactile perception is spatial acuity, which determines the resolutions of vibrotactile displays on the skin. However, the complex vibration characteristics of vibrotactile actuators make it challenging for researchers to reference and compare previous study results. This is because the effects of typical characteristics, such as intensity and frequency, are not well understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of intensity and frequency on vibrotactile spatial acuity. Using Linear Resonant Actuators (LRAs), we conducted relative point localization experiments to measure spatial acuity under different conditions. In the first experiment, we found that intensity had a significant effect on spatial acuity, with higher intensity leading to better acuity. In the second experiment, using a carefully designed intensity calibration procedure, we did not find a significant effect of frequency on spatial acuity. These findings provide a better understanding of vibrotactile spatial acuity, allow for comparisons to previous research, and provide insights into the design of future tactile devices.

The visual depth perception is composed of monocular and binocular depth cues. Studies show that in absence of binocular depth cues the performance of visuomotor tasks like pointing to or grasping objects is limited. Thus, binocular depth cues are of great importance for motor control required in everyday life. However, binocular depth cues like retinal disparity (basis for stereopsis) might be influenced due to developmental disorders of the visual system. For example, amblyopia in which one eye's visual input is not processed leads to loss of stereopsis. The primary amblyopia treatment is occlusion of the healthy eye to force the amblyopic eye to train. However, improvements in stereopsis are poor. Therefore, binocular treatments arose that equilibrate both eyes' visual input to enable binocular vision. However, most approaches rely on divided stimuli which do not account for loss of stereopsis. We created a Virtual Reality (VR) with reduced monocular depth cues in which a stereoscopic task is shown to both eyes simultaneously, consisting of two balls jumping towards the user. One ball appears closer to the user which must be identified. To evaluate the task performance the reaction time is measured. We validated our approach with 18 participants with stereopsis under three contrast settings including one leading to monocular vision. The number of correct responses reduces from 90% under binocular vision to 52% under monocular vision corresponding to random guessing. Our results indicate that it is possible to disable monocular depth cues and create a dynamic stereoscopic task inside a VR.

The technology to support Augmented (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) applications are considered increasingly mature for a broader, productive application in corporate environments. As yet, they have been underused, among other reasons, due to doubts about the acceptance and productive performance by employees. This paper presents a study that collected standardised measures for usability (SUS) and task load (NASA-RTLX) across nine different AR and VR use cases developed specifically for industrial and corporate settings. The resulting prototypes were tested with real potential users as well as with students. The results show that the participants had a positive opinion of the prototype's usability and did not register an unusually high workload. According to the results, factors such as age and gender do not appear to affect usability perception, though they still affect the task-load perception. The study concludes that with human centred design and suitable support on implementation, AR and VR can be successfully used in corporate setting.

Physical QWERTY keyboards are the current standard for performing precision text-entry with extended reality devices. Ideally, there would exist a comparable, self-contained solution that works anywhere, without requiring external keyboards. Unfortunately, when physical keyboards are recreated virtually, we currently lose critical haptic feedback information from the sense of touch, which impedes typing. In this paper, we introduce the MusiKeys Technique, which uses auditory feedback in virtual reality to communicate missing haptic feedback information typists normally receive when using a physical keyboard. To examine this concept, we conducted a user study with 24 participants which encompassed four mid-air virtual keyboards augmented with increasing amounts of feedback information, along with a fifth physical keyboard for reference. Results suggest that providing clicking feedback on key-press and key-release improves typing performance compared to not providing auditory feedback, which is consistent with the literature. We also found that audio can serve as a substitute for information contained in haptic feedback, in that users can accurately perceive the presented information. However, under our specific study conditions, this awareness of the feedback information did not yield significant differences in typing performance. Our results suggest this kind of feedback replacement can be perceived by users but needs more research to tune and improve the specific techniques. Z8 0

We are proposing a novel optical see-through head-worn display that is capable of mutual occlusions. Mutual occlusion is an attribute of an augmented reality display where real objects can occlude virtual objects and virtual objects can occlude real objects. For a user to achieve the perception of indifference between the real and the virtual images superimposed on the real environment, mutual occlusion is a strongly desired attribute for certain applications. This paper presents a breakthrough in display hardware from a mobility (i.e. compactness), resolution, and a switching speed based criteria. Specifically, we focus on the research that is related to virtual objects being able to occlude real objects. The core of the system is a spatial light modulator (SLM) and polarization-based optics which allow us to block or pass certain parts of a scene which is viewed through the head-worn display. An objective lens images the scene onto the SLM and the modulated image is mapped back to the original scene via an eyepiece. We are combining computer generated imagery with the modulated version of the scene to form the final image a user would see.

Foveated rendering takes advantage of the reduced spatial sensitivity in peripheral vision to greatly reduce rendering cost without noticeable spatial quality degradation. Due to its benefits, it has emerged as a key enabler for real-time high-quality virtual and augmented realities. Interestingly though, a large body of work advocates that a key role of peripheral vision may be motion detection, yet foveated rendering lowers the image quality in these regions, which may impact our ability to detect and quantify motion. The problem is critical for immersive simulations where the ability to detect and quantify movement drives actions and decisions. In this work, we diverge from the contemporary approach towards the goal of foveated graphics, and demonstrate that a loss of high-frequency spatial details in the periphery inhibits motion perception, leading to underestimating motion cues such as velocity. Furthermore, inspired by an interesting visual illusion, we design a perceptually motivated real-time technique that synthesizes controlled spatio-temporal motion energy to offset the loss in motion perception. Finally, we perform user experiments demonstrating our method's effectiveness in recovering motion cues without introducing objectionable quality degradation.

Place-based and fieldwork learning play a key role in higher education in environmental sciences and other geo-spatial disciplines. We report on a study in which we evaluated a web-based virtual tour application for teaching natural resource management in fire-prone western forests in two undergraduate classes. The virtual tour uses 360 degrees-image-based virtual scenes and pre-recorded audio commentary by a domain expert to lead participants through the Stanislaus-Tuolumne Experimental Forest where forest treatments were implemented to reduce fire hazard. We present results from assessing students' overall perception of the virtual tour, their views towards its application in undergraduate education, and their feedback for improving the design of future virtual tours. Furthermore, we discuss the collected data from the perspective of gender differences and differences in familiarity with the topic of the tour.

The present work focuses on perceptual control of haptic manipulation during high frequency interaction with mobile objects. In particular in this work we focused on the analysis of the control and perceptual issues in the throwing and catching in juggling. A training multimodal system that exploits the concepts of co-located visuo-haptic feedback and encountered interfaces was implemented. Using such a system the user juggles with a number of virtual balls that are in contact with him from catch to throw. The control design of the system has been supported by a psychometric validation of the catch contact.

The virtual reality (VR) has been utilised in the preoperative planning of tumour surgery because it enables surgeons to touch and operate on tumour in a virtual environment. This paper proposes a virtual tumour perception system for preoperative tumour surgery planning. The system is based on a novel multi-layer mass-spring model, which consists of connected springs in series. The basic parameters of springs are equal ratio sequence. The core parameter shear modulus of springs can be dynamically adjusted according to the biological properties of soft tissue in clinical applications to simulate tissue heterogeneity. A palpation simulation algorithm is designed to help users to perceive the tumours. Two validation experiments are carried out: model accuracy experiment and practical perception experiment. Experiments indicate that the proposed model faithfully mimics actual clinical tumour, which is more accurate compared with models simulated by other systems.

The background of the paper is that there are currently no specifications or guidelines for the design of a user interface for an augmented reality system in an industrial context. In this area, special requirements apply for the perception and recognition of content, which are given by the framework conditions of the industrial environment, the human-technology interaction, and the work task. This paper addresses the software-technical design of augmented reality surfaces in the industrial environment. The aim is to give first design examples for software tasks by means of sample solutions. For a user-oriented implementation, the methods of personas and an empirical investigation were used. Personas are a stereotypical representation of end users that reflect their characteristics and requirements. For the subsequent development of the pattern catalog, different prototypes with layout and interaction variants were tested in an empirical study with 50 participants. By observing the current realizations, these can be examined more closely in terms of their specific use in an industrial environment. The result is a pattern catalog with 26 solutions for layout and interaction variants. For the layout variants, no direct favorite of the testers could be ascertained; the existing solutions already offer a wide spectrum, which are chosen according to personal preferences. For interaction, on the other hand, it is important to enable fast input. During the study, gesture control revealed weaknesses in this regard. This can be supportive in the development of an industrial augmented reality system regarding a user-oriented representation of the interface. Z8 0

With the growing interest in recreating live and realistic outside experiences within the confines of our homes, the online shopping industry has also been impacted. However, traditional modes of interaction with online storefronts have remained mainly unchanged. This paper studies the factors influencing user experience and interaction in 3D virtual stores. We created a prototype that uses a 3D virtual environment for users to navigate, purchase items, and communicate with a conversational agent. The designed interface was tested by studying a set of variables, including the user's interaction medium with the conversational agent, the movement method within the store, the user's perception of the conversational agent, the conversational agent's usability, and the store items' visual representation. Through the user study, we gained insights into the factors that guide the user's experience in 3D virtual stores. We concluded that 80% of users preferred less intrusive conversational agents and 75% preferred agents that did not hide visual elements. Additionally, 80% of the participants favored combining 2D and 3D visualization techniques.

The virtual reality (VR) headset is still relatively heavy, causing a significant physical and mental burden and negatively affecting the VR user experience, particularly during extended periods of use. In this paper, we present a prototype design of the "Lifter," which utilizes a counterbalanced wire-pulley mechanism to partially relieve the weight of the VR headset (between 50% and 85%). The human subject study has confirmed that the Lifter relieved not only physical fatigue but also significantly improved mental burden, sense of immersion, presence, and flow (perception of time passing) during prolonged usage (30 minutes or more).

How do we perceive objects when what we see and what we touch is not at the same place? In a virtual environment, we observed that spatial delocation promotes visual dominance when judging the rotation angle of a hand-operated handle. Thus, the delocation of perceptual information appears to increase considerably the weight of the dominant sense at the expense of the other. We relate this result to the design of teleoperation and virtual reality systems, in which, typically, the visual and haptic sensory information originates in spatially distinct devices. Z8 0

Navigation speed for most navigation interfaces is still determined by rate-control devices (e.g. joystick). The interface designer is in charge of adjusting the range of optimal speeds according to the scale of the environment and the desired user experience. However, this approach is not valid for complex environments (e.g. multi-scale environments). Optimal speeds might vary for each section of the environment, leading to non-desired side effects such as collisions or simulator sickness. Thereby, we propose a speed-adaptation algorithm based on the spatial relationship between the user and the environment and the user's perception of motion. The computed information is used to adjust the navigation speed in order to provide an optimal navigation speed and avoid collisions. Two main benefits of our approach is firstly, the ability to adapt the navigation speed in multi-scale environments and secondly, the capacity to provide a smooth navigation experience by decreasing the jerkiness of described trajectories. The evaluation showed that our approach provides comparable performance as existing navigation techniques but it significantly decreases the jerkiness of described trajectories.

Most commercial virtual reality applications with self avatars provide users with a-one-size fits all" avatar. While the height of this body may be scaled to the user's height, other body proportions, such as limb length and hand size, are rarely customized to fit an individual user. Prior research has shown that mismatches between users' avatars and their actual bodies can affect size perception and feelings of body ownership. In this paper, we consider how concepts related to the virtual hand illusion, user experience, and task efficiency are influenced by variations between the size of a user's actual hand and their avatar's hand. We also consider how using a tracked controller or tracked gestures affect these concepts. We conducted a 2x3 within-subjects study (n=20), with two levels of input modality: using tracked finger motion vs. a hand-held controller (Glove vs. Controller), and three levels of hand scaling (Small, Fit, and Large). Participants completed 2 block-assembly trials for each condition (for a total of 12 trials). Time, mistakes, and a user experience survey were recorded for each trial. Participants experienced stronger feelings of ownership and realism in the Glove condition. Efficiency was higher in the Controller condition and supported by play data of more time spent, blocks grabbed, and blocks dropped in the Glove condition. We did not find enough evidence for a change in agency and the intensity of the virtual hand illusion depending on hand size. Over half of the participants indicated preferring the Glove condition over the Controller condition, mentioning fun and efficiency as factors in their choices. Preferences on hand scaling were mixed but often attributed to efficiency. Participants liked the appearance of their virtual hand more while using the Fit instead of Large hands. Several interaction effects were observed between input modality and hand scaling, for example, for smaller hands, tracked hands evoked stronger feelings of ownership compared to using a controller. Our results show that the virtual hand illusion is stronger when participants are able to control a hand directly rather than with a hand-held device, and that the virtual reality task must first be considered to determine which modality and hand size are the most applicable.

We detail the design, implementation, and an initial evaluation of a virtual reality education and entertainment (edutainment) application called Virtual Environment Interactions (VEnvI). VEnvI is an application in which students learn computer science concepts through the process of choreographing movement for a virtual character using a fun and intuitive interface. In this exploratory study, 54 participants as part of a summer camp geared towards promoting participation of women in science and engineering programmatically crafted a dance performance for a virtual human. A subset of those students (16) participated in an immersive embodied interaction metaphor in VEnvI. In creating this metaphor that provides first-person, embodied experiences using self-avatars, we seek to facilitate engagement, excitement and interest in computational thinking. We qualitatively and quantitatively evaluated the extent to which the activities of the summer camp, programming the dance moves, and the embodied interaction within VEnvI facilitated students' edutainment, presence, interest, excitement, and engagement in computing, and the potential to alter their perceptions of computing and computer scientists. Results indicate that students enjoyed the experience and successfully engaged the virtual character in the immersive embodied interaction, thus exhibiting high telepresence and social presence. Students also showed increased interest and excitement regarding the computing field at the end of their summer camp experience using VEnvI.

Although virtual reality (VR) wayfinding systems are available for people with visual impairment, there is a lack of studies providing the choice of VR environments can affect their spatial information acquisition. To address these issues, we designed two VR-based wayfinding systems for people with visual impairment. We compared the efficacy of walk-in-place, where the user walks in a virtual environment by walking on a treadmill in the real world, and overground walking, where the user walks in a virtual environment by walking in a constrained analogous real walking space without walls and obstacles. By conducting user experiments on these two VR-based wayfinding systems, we evaluated how people with visual impairments acquired spatial information regarding paths and obstacles. Our results showed that people with visual impairment memorized the paths more accurately after the wayfinding with walk-in-place than with the overground walking. Conversely, they memorized the obstacles on the path more accurately after the wayfinding task with the overground walking than the walk-in-place. Lastly, we discussed the rationale for these results of task on the walk-in-place and the overground walking.

The rise of virtual reality (VR) technology has opened up new opportunities for individuals with mobility impairments to participate in adaptive sports training. This paper reports on a survey study of individuals with mobility impairments to explore their expectations and needs when designing and developing VR games for adaptive sports training. Results indicate that participants are highly motivated to engage in VR adaptive sports training due to its promising potential and have specific requirements for game design and development, including ease of use, realistic gameplay, and accessible controls. This study highlights the transformative potential of VR technology in providing equal opportunities for individuals with mobility impairments to participate in adaptive sports training and promotes the development of inclusive VR games for disable users. Our findings have actionable implications for game designers, developers, and researchers, as they underscore the importance of accessibility and inclusiveness in the design and development of VR games for adaptive sports training.

This article presents the findings from an experimental study on the use of binaural audio in two long-form journalistic features broadcast on Portuguese radio. From a production and narrative design perspective, our objective is to examine whether/how binaural audio implies a transformation of previously established news radio production work principles and practices, as well as of storytelling ideation and techniques. From a user experience viewpoint, we examine whether the use of binaural audio translates into higher levels of self-reported immersion and place illusion (n = 77). Despite the spread of new audio journalism formats, media and communication studies have until now largely neglected the role of spatial audio in the construction of immersion and the illusion of place. We argue that this epistemic omission translates into an image-centric conception and operationalization of the immersive journalism proposal, which stands out as a knowledge gap regarding the work of journalistic storytellers and relating to participants' actual experience. The original contribution of this article is threefold: (1) conceptual, by broadening the perspective of journalism studies' scholars and media professionals on the concept of immersive journalism, which, in our view, is often incorrectly considered to be synonymous with that of virtual reality journalism; (2) practical, by generating a more nuanced understanding of how actual practitioners perceive and employ immersive journalism; (3) phenomenological, by developing an examination of the factors that influence listeners' ultimate perception of the immersive experience.

With the recent developments in Internet and innovative technologies, food industry has evolved in the globe. Online food order solutions adopted to personalized health and wellbeing requirements provide easier access to a wide range of foods. Such online web sites based on opportunity equality have significantly grown the market. Additionally, the growing tourism sector worldwide has significantly increased the need on visual access to gastronomic and cultural information related to foods. However, while opportunities, easiness and diffusion among cultures through food industry increase, there is a growing risk of health or low satisfaction due to unconscious ordering. Thus, ordering enriched with visual perception and knowledge has come to forward. In this paper, an interactive rstaurant environment is presented by virtual reality specialized according to users' preferences and personal budget. In the proposed solution a food taxonomy that is based on Turkish food industry is taken into account.

Current commercial Augmented Reality (AR) headsets are expensive and limited in availability, posing challenges for researchers and designers in resource-constrained settings. To address this, we introduce Attina, an open-source, low-cost optical see-through AR headset using a smartphone as its display. Overcoming limitations of previous work, the system features stereoscopic rendering for enhanced depth perception and a 3-DoF controller for virtual interactions. We discuss Attina's design and outline opportunities for a usability study to evaluate its user experience.

Providing users with rich sensations is beneficial to enhance their immersion in Virtual Reality (VR) environments. Wetness is one such imperative sensation that affects users' sense of comfort and helps users adjust grip force when interacting with objects. Researchers have recently begun to explore ways to create wetness illusions, primarily on a user's face or body skin. In this work, we extended this line of research by creating wetness illusion on users' fingertips. We first conducted a user study to understand the effect of thermal and tactile feedback on users' perceived wetness sensation. Informed by the findings, we designed and evaluated a prototype-Mouille-that provides various levels of wetness illusions on fingertips for both hard and soft items when users squeeze, lift, or scratch it. Study results indicated that users were able to feel wetness with different levels of temperature changes and they were able to distinguish three levels of wetness for simulated VR objects. We further presented applications that simulated an ice cube, an iced cola bottle, and a wet sponge, etc, to demonstrate its use in VR.

Evaluation on system or software is important thing to do, when developing a software or system. This step will ensures yours developed system or software has high quality in functionality or non-functionality needs. Several methods can be used to evaluate the Augmented Reality application: subjective measurement using human perception or objective measure from observation, or evaluation by expert through cognitive walkthrough, heuristic evaluation, lab observation, and questionnaire. An evaluation is more valid if evaluation was done in multiple methods in order to confirm the result of evaluation.

What situational contexts constructed by learning content or environments may facilitate learners' epistemic curiosity is a noteworthy issue for contemporary education. Besides, the importance of narrative design in pedagogical immersive virtual reality (IVR) applications has been highlighted. This study hence proposed an epistemic curiosity-evoking approach to integrate into an IVR learning system for narrative reading. Through the quantitative data collection from 72 post-secondary students, their user experience and learning experience (i.e., epistemic curiosity, transportation, and attitudinal learning) when engaging in the IVR narrative reading activity were explored. This study also proposed the transportation-imagery immersive learning model (TIILM) to analyze the interaction among the variables of learning experience by a series of PLS-SEM analyses. The results showed that the development of the IVR learning system with the epistemic curiosity-evoking approaches can provide students with a favorable user experience. The positive effects of the instructional approaches exploited in the virtual environments on the students' learning experiences were also found, particularly for the benefits of cognitive perceptions. The hedonic experiences were found to play a more important role in learning experiences than the pragmatic experiences did. The narrative transportation was verified as a mediator which interfered with the relationship between triggered epistemic curiosity (driver) and cognitive attitudinal learning (consequence). The examination of TIILM contributes to identifying a cognitive research path in the structural relationships among epistemic curiosity, transportation, and attitudinal learning, particularly for IVR-related learning research. Theoretical and practical implications of this study are also addressed. Z8 0

The architectural, engineering, and construction (AEC) industries are using virtual reality (VR) to improve engagement and interactions. However, VR visualization's effectiveness in client pitching is unclear. This study analyzes how VR visualization affects customer preferences and price, as well as the complex interaction between architectural scale and demographic aspects. The outcomes enable more precise and personalized VR implementation. VR is the favoured alternative, with 14% price premiums according to a statistical analysis. Its realistic field of view and immersion allow users to explore sites at their own leisure. VR represents all architectural typologies and sizes without compromise. This VR utilization can serve as an ameliorating tool to augment marketing and sales for the client pitching stage in the AEC sectors.

We developed a tactile mouse that presents convex dot-patterns on a human palm to obtain the design parameters of haptic devices for virtual reality (VR). In a tactile VR study, we focused on the following issue, "which tactile perception is superior, active or passive touch?", because it is related to the design of haptic devices that can present detailed information in tactile VR. This study evaluates the differences in perception precision between active and passive touch to clarify the best presentation method in VR through a series of psychophysical experiments using a tactile mouse. Since the presentation precision of virtual figures depends on the sharpness of the edges generated by dot-patterns, our experiment subjects evaluate the slope of the oblique edges. In a psychophysical experiment, two oblique edges of dot-patterns are presented consecutively and subjects compare them to determine which is larger. We evaluate the perception precision using the difference threshold of the edge angles calculated by the simplified constant stimuli method. Experimental results show that the perception precision at low speed (45 and 90 mm/s) of edge movement is better than at high speed (130 and 170 mm/s) and also that there is no significant difference between active and passive touching.

An effective warning attracts attention, elicits knowledge, and enables compliance behavior. Game mechanics, which are directly linked to human desires, stand out as training, evaluation, and improvement tools. Immersive virtual reality (VR) facilitates training without risk to participants, evaluates the impact of an incorrect action/decision, and creates a smart training environment. The present study analyzes the user experience in a gamified virtual environment of risks using the HTC Vive head-mounted display. The game was developed in the Unreal game engine and consisted of a walk-through maze composed of evident dangers and different signaling variables while user action data were recorded. To demonstrate which aspects provide better interaction, experience, perception and memory, three different warning configurations (dynamic, static and smart) and two different levels of danger (low and high) were presented. To properly assess the impact of the experience, we conducted a survey about personality and knowledge before and after using the game. We proceeded with the qualitative approach by using questions in a bipolar laddering assessment that was compared with the recorded data during the game. The findings indicate that when users are engaged in VR, they tend to test the consequences of their actions rather than maintaining safety. The results also reveal that textual signal variables are not accessed when users are faced with the stress factor of time. Progress is needed in implementing new technologies for warnings and advance notifications to improve the evaluation of human behavior in virtual environments of high-risk surroundings.

The quality of surgical operation is very important for the patients' safety and the reduction of aftereffects after surgery. To do this, practicing surgical operations is also increasingly important. Due to the development of hardware and simulation techniques such as virtual reality (VR), VR simulators have been developed as a method to train surgeons and medical students majoring in surgery. In addition, controllers that support various kinds of haptic feedback have also been developed for a more realistic and immersive user experience. In this study, we introduce a morphable haptic controller that provides geometric and tactile feedback to users and propose a VR simulation system using this controller. This system is designed to perform a high tibial osteotomy in a virtual environment. The morphable haptic controller attached to the system through the input mapping daemon provides the senses of multiple surgical instruments used in the simulation. As a result, the haptic controller achieves an outstanding result through an actual interaction between surgical tools and the surgical sites. We verified that this was effective in surgery training through orthopedic surgeons. Z8 0

The pairing of Virtual Reality technology with Physiological Sensing has gained much interest in clinical settings and beyond: from developing novel methods for diagnosis of perception and cognition impairments, biofeedback for anxiety treatment, to enhancing everyday practices such as self-guided meditation. However, conducting this type of research does not come without challenges. For example, accessing the equipment for recording data from the user and synchronizing physiological response data with the stimuli or interactive environment are not trivial tasks, and generating virtual content in response to the user's real-time data is costly and complex. This paper presents Galea, a device for multi-modal signal acquisition able to measure the physiological response of a user when experiencing virtual content, enabling behavioral, affective computing, and human-computer interaction research and applications to access data from the Parasympathetic nervous system and Sympathetic nervous system simultaneously. We present a primer on detectable human physiology as an input source for Physiological Computing from the perspective of the signals available through our device. We describe the primary design considerations and circuit characterization results of in-vivo recordings from the wearer's brain, eyes, heart, skin, and muscles. We also present an example to help contextualize how these signals can be used in a virtual reality setting. Galea makes working with physiological sensors in virtual reality more accessible and can offer a standard for inter and intra experiment data comparisons. Lastly, we discuss the importance and contributions of this work as well as future challenges that need to be considered.

Contextual illusions, such as the Ebbinghaus Illusion, can be potentially used to improve or hinder reach-to-grasp interaction in a virtual environment by affecting the perception of object size and the action. However, the illusion effect has only been evaluated using 2D objects like discs or annuluses, and limited research has been conducted in a virtual environment. Moreover, it remains unknown how the sudden, or dynamic, change of surrounding features will impact the perception and then the action towards the object. In this paper, we conducted a series of experiments to evaluate the effects of 3D Ebbinghaus illusion with dynamic surrounding features on the task of reaching to grasp a 3D object in an immersive virtual environment. An innovative 3D perceptual judgment task revealed that the static 3D illusion affected the perceived size of the 3D object. Then, we experimentally manipulated the visual gain and loss of the 3D contextual inducers, the participant's virtual hand, and the entire 3D contextual object. Results revealed that the depth error (error in depth of reaching action) was influenced by a dynamic change in the size of the inducers, the fine adjustment of grasp was dependent on the visual presence of the virtual hand and vision of 3D contextual object was required for the reaching and grasping movements. These results will benefit the understanding of reach-to-grasp interactions in immersive virtual environments and can improve interaction design.

This prospective study concerning the perception of audio virtual surfaces (AVSs) was inspired by two different research fields: sensory substitution and haptic and touch perception. We define an Audio Virtual Surface as a region of space that triggers sounds when the user touches it or moves into it. First, we describe an example of interactive setup using an AVS to simulate a sonic interaction with a virtual water tank. Then, we present an experiment designed to investigate the ability of blindfolded adults to discriminate between concave and convex AVSs using only the gesture-sound interaction. Two groups received different sound feedback, a static one indicating presence in the AVS, and a static+dynamic one (related to the component of the hand velocity tangential to the surface). In order to demonstrate that curvature direction was correctly perceived, we estimated their discrimination thresholds with a psychophysical staircase procedure. Results show that most of the participants were able to learn the task. The best results were obtained with the additional dynamic feedback. Gestural patterns emerged from the interaction, suggesting the use of auditory representations of the virtual object. This work proposes a contribution to the introduction in Virtual Reality of sonic interactions with auditory virtual objects. The setups we present raise new questions at both experimental (sensory substitution) and application levels (design of gesture-sound interaction for virtual reality).

There are many ways by which we can learn new skills. For sensory motor skills, repeated practice (often under supervision and guidance of an expert mentor) is required in order to progressively understand the consequences of our actions, adapt our behavior and develop optimal perception-action loops needed to intuitively and efficiently perform the task. VR multimodal platforms, if adequately designed, can offer an alternative to real environments therefore. Indeed they present interesting features: controlled environment, measure of the user's performance, display of quantitative feedback. This paper presents such a platform that was developed for surgery skills training.

Video gaming has been rising rapidly to become one of the primary entertainment media, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Playing video games has been reported to associate with many psychological and behavioral traits. However, little is known about the connections between game players' behaviors in the virtual environment and environmental perceptions. Thus, the current data set offers valuable resources regarding environmental worldviews and behaviors in the virtual world of 640 Animal Crossing: New Horizons (ACNH) game players from 29 countries around the globe. The data set consists of six major categories: 1) socio-demographic profile, 2) COVID-19 concern, 3) environmental perception, 4) game-playing habit, 5) in-game behavior, and 6) game-playing feeling. By making this data set open, we aim to provide policymakers, game producers, and researchers with valuable resources for understanding the interactions between behaviors in the virtual world and environmental perceptions, which could help produce video games in compliance with the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals.

With augmented reality, virtual information can be overlaid on the real world in order to enhance a human's perception of reality. In this study, we aim to deepen the knowledge of augmented reality in the shop-floor context and analyze its role within smart factories of the future. The study evaluates a number of approaches for realizing augmented reality and discusses advantages and disadvantages of different solutions from a shop-floor operator's perspective. The evaluation is done in collaboration with industrial companies, including Volvo Cars and Volvo GTO amongst others. The study also identifies important future research directions for utilizing the full potential of the technology and successfully implement it on industrial shop-floors. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Upon entering 2022, Taiwan faced an epidemic that broke out in large numbers in a short time came to have the highest infection rate in the world, which has driven the demand for virtual reality (VR) tourism. The current study integrated the concepts of the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT) and the theory of planned behaviour (TPB) to investigate users' VR tourism behaviour intention. Using a sample of 635 virtual reality (VR) users, the results indicate that UTAUT might indirectly influence behaviour through the perceived benefits of technology usage. Further, attitudes toward VR tourism have positively strengthened the relationships between UTAUT, perceived benefits, and behavioural intention. First-order factor and second-order factor analyses of alternative models were applied to implement a comparative design with the originally proposed models. The theoretical and managerial implications are discussed in the final section.

Most studies of grip force control focus on the manipulation of rigid objects. However, in virtual and teleoperation applications, objects are often elastic in the pinch degree-of-freedom, and are manipulated using a handle that presents haptic feedback to the user. When designing controllers for haptic grippers, it is crucial to understand how grip force is controlled when manipulating rigid and deformable objects. Here, we used a virtual teleoperation setup with a haptic gripper interface to investigate grip force control in virtual environments. Ten participants lifted virtual objects and performed vertical, cyclic motions using a haptic gripper. We manipulated the control signal to the virtual interface, the haptic properties of the gripper, and the visual properties of the virtual objects to test their effect on the grip force control. We found that participants modulated their grip force as a function of the anticipated load force in all of the experimental conditions. The control signal and properties of the haptic gripper, but not the visual properties of the objects, affected the baseline and the extent of the grip force modulation. These results can provide design guidelines for haptic grippers that elicit natural grasping in virtual and bilateral teleoperation applications.

In recent years, the quality of real-time rendering has reached new heights-realistic reflections, physically based materials, and photometric lighting are all becoming commonplace in modern game engines and even interactive virtual environments, such as virtual reality (VR). As the strive for realism continues, there is a need to investigate the effect of photorealism on users' perception, particularly for interactive, emotional scenarios in VR. In this article, we explored three main topics, where we predicted photorealism will make a difference: the illusion of being present with the virtual person and in an environment, altered emotional response toward the character, and a subtler response-comfort of being in close proximity to the character. We present a perceptual experiment, with an interactive expressive virtual character in VR, which was designed to induce particular social responses in people. Our participant pool was large (N = 797) and diverse in terms of demographics. We designed a between-group experiment, where each group saw either the realistic rendering or one of our stylized conditions (simple and sketch style), expressing one of three attitudes: Friendly, Unfriendly, or Sad. While the render style did not particularly effect the level of comfort with the character or increase the illusion of presence with it, our main finding shows that the photorealistic character changed the emotional responses of participants, compared to the stylized versions. We also found a preference for realism in VR, reflected in the affinity and higher place illusion in the scenario, rendered in the realistic render style.

In this paper, we present a mechanical hand-tracking system with tactile feedback designed for fine manipulation in teleoperation scenarios. Alternative tracking methods based on artificial vision and data gloves have become an asset for virtual reality interaction. Yet, occlusions, lack of precision, and the absence of effective haptic feedback beyond vibrotactile still appear as a limit for teleoperation applications. In this work, we propose a methodology to design a linkage mechanism for hand pose tracking purposes, preserving complete finger mobility. Presentation of the method is followed by design and implementation of a working prototype, and by evaluation of the tracking accuracy using optical markers. Moreover, a teleoperation experiment involving a dexterous robotic arm and hand was proposed to ten participants. It investigated the effectiveness and repeatability of the hand tracking with combined haptic feedback during a proposed pick and place manipulation tasks.

In recent years, to attract global manufacturers, media reporters, and consumer attention, a popular term in search engines has been virtual reality (VR). In addition to video, entertainment, education, and medical, VR can be used in electronic commerce (E-commerce). Currently, most E-commerce platforms present products using 2D images, text-based interface or animation. However, consumers want to know more about the products while online shopping and compare the product's material, color, and other elements. Therefore, combining VR with E-commerce can improve the user's shopping experience. This study will focus on the characteristics of VR and E-commerce. This feature can be used to interactively study UI and UX between users and designers to generate design criteria. Experimental design is carried out through the modified SEM-CPU method. Then, we use the think-aloud protocols, Questionnaire for User Interaction Satisfaction, and User Experience Questionnaire to understand the user's thoughts on UI and UX. Moreover, this study uses focus group to interview experts to obtain expert opinions on VR E-commerce. Induction and integration of data is carried out to produce design criteria by experimental results. Finally, the Delphi method is utilized to validate and evaluate the practicability of the design criterion. Through the "UI and UX design criteria of VR" generated by this study, many important design elements can be proposed and assessed in VR E-commerce. In closing, this study provides design and development suggestions for VR developers to improve the positive influence of UX.

This paper proposes to use Virtual Reality scenarios to explore the reaction of stakeholders within an innovation process in the context of the introduction of robots working in close collaboration with users. The goal is to design the system upfront in such a way, that it is not perceived as a threat to the worker or his/her job. Within the responsible research and innovation approach, the introduction of new technology needs to be accompanied by a careful investigation of the thoughts and feelings of all stakeholders. Especially workers who are currently not working with robots but their workspace is currently undergoing an Industry 4.0 driven transformation, experience fear, that this new technology will make their jobs redundant. On the other hand, it can be observed, that successful robot interaction processes, on the one hand, increase the overall productivity, but also can enhance human well-being. The feeling of "teamwork" with the artificial intelligence entity can develop to be equally positive and motivating. To be able to design future workspaces which will result in a "teamwork" perception instead of the "fear" perception, the use of VR can be applied.

Tactile discrimination and roughness perception of real textures are extensively studied and underlying perceptual mechanisms are relatively well-established. However, tactile perception of virtual textures rendered by friction modulation techniques on touch surfaces has not been investigated in detail yet. In this article, we investigated our ability to discriminate two consecutive step changes in friction (called edges), followed by discrimination and roughness perception of multiple edges (called periodic gratings). The results showed that discrimination of two consecutive edges was significantly influenced by edge sequence: a step fall in friction (FF) followed by a step rise in friction (RF) was discriminated more easily than the reverse order. On the other hand, periodic gratings displayed by consecutive sequences of FF followed by RF were perceived with the same acuity as compared to vice versa. Independent of the edge sequence, we found that a relative difference of 14% in spatial period was required to discriminate two periodic gratings. Moreover, the roughness perception of periodic gratings decreased with increasing spatial period for the range that we have investigated (spatial period > 2 mm), despite the lack of spatial cues on grating height. We also observed that rate of change in friction coefficient was better correlated with the roughness perception than the friction coefficient itself. These results will further help to understand and design virtual textures for touch surfaces.

Virtual reality (VR) has recently emerged as a platform that can be employed in the context of e-health applications. Even though the majority of VR-based applications focus on visual stimuli as the main content, audio also plays a very important role. If someone has an issue with auditory processing, the comprehension of auditory information is compromised. This condition reflects negatively on one's quality of life, given the impact of audio perception on one's ability to communicate effectively or to differentiate and ignore "noise". This work aims to design a VR application that can be used to: (a) optimize multimodal VR experiences based on user trials (b) extract user data continuously throughout the experiment (c) evaluate a user's auditory processing ability. To accomplish this goal, participants are required to localise a sound source in space in the presence of multiple listening conditions with simple and complex sound stimuli configurations. Data collected from users consists of physiological and objective metrics. The results of this study highlight the relationship between user behaviour (head movement, fixation points) and performance in the sound localisation task. This information can be used to design future applications with the purpose of training one's auditory localisation ability. In addition, the evaluation compared the impact of using two interaction methods to perform this task: using a pointer or eye gaze to indicate the location of the target source. The findings from this study show statistically significant differences in terms of physiological response when subjects are exposed to different interaction methods, with greater immersion and performance for the pointer group.

This paper describes the design of a modular multi-finger haptic device for virtual object manipulation. Mechanical structures are based on one module per finger and can be scaled up to three fingers. Mechanical configurations for two and three fingers are based on the use of one and two redundant axes, respectively. As demonstrated, redundant axes significantly increase workspace and prevent link collisions, which is their main asset with respect to other multi-finger haptic devices. The location of redundant axes and link dimensions have been optimized in order to guarantee a proper workspace, manipulability, force capability, and inertia for the device. The mechanical haptic device design and a thimble adaptable to different finger sizes have also been developed for virtual object manipulation.

In this project, we create artificial piloerection using contactless electrostatics to induce tactile sensations in a contactless way. Firstly, we design various high-voltage generators and evaluate them in terms of their static charge, safety and frequency response with different electrodes as well as grounding strategies. Secondly, a psychophysics user study revealed which parts of the upper body are more sensitive to electrostatic piloerection and what adjectives are associated with them. Finally, we combine an electrostatic generator to produce artificial piloerection on the nape with a head-mounted display, this device provides an augmented virtual experience related to fear. We hope that work encourages designers to explore contactless piloerection for enhancing experiences such as music, short movies, video games, or exhibitions.

The study of haptic perception often makes use of haptic rendering to display the variety of impedances needed to run an experiment. Unacknowledged in many cases is the influence of the selected device hardware on what the user will feel, particularly in interactions featuring frequencies above the control bandwidth. While human motion is generally limited to 10 Hz, virtual environments with unilateral constraints are subject to excitation of a wider frequency spectrum through contact transitions. We employ the effective impedance decomposition to discuss the effects of parasitics outside the rendering bandwidth. We also introduce an analysis of the admittance and impedance controllers with respect to sensitivity to load cell noise. We explore these effects using a single degree-of-freedom device that can be configured for either a low or high mechanical advantage in a perceptual experiment, with experimental conditions designed through application of the effective impedance decomposition. We find that the excitation of high frequencies through contact transitions negatively impacts humans' ability to distinguish between stiffnesses.

In this paper we examine the extent of functional reaching space, or peripersonal space, in immersive three-dimensional virtual reality. In the real world a person's peripersonal space boundaries can be altered by factors in the environment and by social context. We completed two studies with visual and tactile stimuli to determine peripersonal space boundaries. These studies investigated whether peripersonal space boundaries in an immersive virtual environment are consistent with those in the real world, and could be altered by object and virtual agent interactions. We found that while peripersonal space boundaries were consistent with those in the real world, they were responsive to object and agent interactions. Moreover, while people's reactions to the objects and agents varied, the peripersonal space boundaries remained consistent. These findings have potential implications for the design of virtual environments.

Mixed reality environments represent a new approach to creating technology-mediated experiences. However, there is a lack of empirical research investigating users' actual experience. The aim of the current exploratory, non-experimental study was to establish levels of and identify factors associated with presence, within the framework of Schubert et al.'s model of presence. Using questionnaire and interview methods, the experience of the final performance of the Desert Rain mixed reality environment was investigated. Levels of general and spatial presence were relatively high, but levels of involvement and realness were not. Overall, intrinsic motivation, confidence and intention to re-visit Desert Rain were high. However, age was negatively associated with both spatial presence and confidence to play. Furthermore, various problems in navigating the environment were identified. Results are discussed in terms of Schubert's model and other theoretical perspectives. Implications for system design are presented. Z8 0

Weight perception in virtual environments generally can be achieved with haptic devices. However, most of these are hard to integrate in an immersive virtual environment (IVE) due to their technical complexity and the restriction of a user's movement within the IVE. We describe two simple methods using only a wireless light-weight finger-tracking device in combination with a physics simulated hand model to create a feeling of heaviness of virtual objects when interacting with them in an IVE. The first method maps the varying distance between tracked fingers and the thumb to the grasping force required for lifting a virtual object with a given weight. The second method maps the detected intensity of finger pinch during grasping gestures to the lifting force. In an experiment described in this paper we investigated the potential of the proposed methods for the discrimination of heaviness of virtual objects by finding the just noticeable difference (JND) to calculate the Weber fraction. Furthermore, the workload that users experienced using these methods was measured to gain more insight into their usefulness as interaction technique. At a hit ratio of 0.75, the determined Weber fraction using the finger distance based method was 16.25% and using the pinch based method was 15.48%, which corresponds to values found in related work. There was no significant effect of method on the difference threshold measured and the workload experienced, however the user preference was higher for the pinch based method. The results demonstrate the capability of the proposed methods for the perception of heaviness in IVEs and therefore represent a simple alternative to haptics based methods.

We report on a cross-cultural collaborative project between students and faculty at DePauw University in the United States and Shibaura Institute of Technology in Japan that used cross-cultural teams to design and evaluate robotic gadgets to gain a deeper understanding of the role that kawaii (Japanese cuteness) plays in fostering positive human response to, and acceptance of, these devices across cultures. Two cross-cultural design teams used Unity and C# to design and implement prototypes of virtual robotic gadgets as well as virtual environments for the robots to interact in. One team designed a virtual train station as well as robotic gadgets to operate in the station. The other team designed a virtual university campus as well as robotic gadgets that operated in that environment. Two versions of each robotic gadget were designed, such that the two versions differed with respect to one kawaii attribute (shape, size, etc.) Using these robots, we conducted a formal study that compared perceptions of kawaii robots between American college students and Japanese college students, as well as across genders. The findings revealed that there was not much difference in perception of kawaii across cultures and genders. Furthermore, the study shows that designing a robot to be more kawaii/cute appears to positively influence human preference for being around the robot. This study will inform our long-term goal of designing robots that are appealing across gender and culture.

Crane lifts for bulky module installation greatly affect site safety and efficiency. However, few previous studies addressed collaborative training for a lifting crew in modular construction. Therefore, this paper aims to develop a virtual reality (VR) system for enhancing multi-role collaboration in crane-lift training. The system is developed by integrating full-, semi-, and non-immersive VR devices with role-specific functions designed for crane operators, riggers, and signalers in modular building projects. The system is objectively assessed by six groups of researchers with memory tests and proved more effective in group-based crane-lift training than the lecturebased approach, resulting in a 33% improvement in the trainees' memory stability. The system is also evaluated by the researchers and six industry practitioners who affirm that their understanding of the crane-lift process is enhanced through multi-role collaboration using the system. The developed multi-user VR system should facilitate safe and efficient delivery of modular buildings.

PurposePeople living with dementia are often at increased risk of becoming socially disconnected due to dementia-related challenges. In recent years, digital technology has been designed to help address the social health of people living with dementia and provide opportunities to promote or maintain their social connectedness. This paper presents the findings from phase two of a participatory action research project, which explored people living with dementia and their caregiver's experiences and perceptions of social connectedness and the potential role of Virtual Reality (VR) in promoting or maintaining same.Materials and MethodsPeople living with dementia (n = 8) and their informal caregivers (n = 8) participated in an individual, 1:1 online interview. Data analysis was guided by reflexive thematic analysis.ResultsThe findings presented four themes: social connectedness: lived experiences and insights, facilitating social connectedness, barriers to social connectedness and the potential of multi-user VR for social connectedness. People living with dementia experienced a range of personal, community and societal connectedness. Facilitators of social connectedness included supportive, non-judgemental, and reciprocal relationships, technology adoption, and personal and contextual facilitators. Dementia-related difficulties and periods of disruption or change were considered barriers to social connectedness. Multi-user VR was perceived as useful for promoting and maintaining social connectedness.ConclusionsThe perceived usefulness of multi-user VR for social connectedness indicates its potential for use with this population. Understanding the lived experiences, barriers, and facilitators of social connectedness will assist researchers and the human-computer interaction community to inform the design of future multi-user VR for social connectedness outcomes with people living with dementia and their caregivers. People living with dementia and their caregivers consider social connectedness a vital aspect of living well with dementia.People living with dementia experience social connectedness across personal, community and societal domains.Supportive, non-judgemental or reciprocal relationships, fostering technology, and personal and contextual factors facilitate social connectedness for people living with dementia.Dementia-related barriers and periods of disruption and change can negatively impact the social connectedness of people living with dementia.People living with dementia and their caregivers consider multi-user virtual reality a promising technology to promote and maintain their social connectedness.

Augmented Reality (AR) technologies in maintenance are demonstrated to positively impact on technicians' work and performance. Current research in this area is mainly focused on solving technical challenges related with AR in industrial environments. Limited attention has been put into the user perception, ergonomics and usability aspects of AR systems design. This paper proposes an innovative user-centred design support tool for AR systems in maintenance contexts. The tool is based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), which is a well-established multi criteria decision-making approach. In this research, AHP is utilised for guiding designers in the evaluation of application-contexts and AR technologies for selecting the most suitable and effective AR interaction solution. The tool's validation has been conducted with twelve maintenance-experts in a design workshop using two case studies. The quantitative results obtained in both case studies reveal the applicability of the AHP model, as well as the effectiveness of the design support tool for complex decisions in AR for maintenance. The use of AHP methods for AR design enable experts to deal with complex and contrasting concepts and express a preference among them with a subjective judgement based on their personal understanding of the problem. Therefore, simplifying the design of AR systems for complex maintenance contexts. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

The proprioceptive sense provides somatosensory information about positions of parts of the body, information that is essential for guiding behavior and monitoring the body. Few studies have investigated the perceptual localization of individual fingers, despite their importance for tactile exploration and fine manipulation. We present two experiments assessing the performance of proprioceptive localization of multiple fingers, either alone or in combination with visual cues. In the first experiment, we used a virtual reality paradigm to assess localization of multiple fingers. Surprisingly, the errors averaged 3.7 cm per digit, which represents a significant fraction of the range of motion of any finger. Both random and systematic errors were large. The latter included participant-specific biases and participant-independent distortions that evoked similar observations from prior studies of perceptual representations of hand shape. In a second experiment, we introduced visual cues about positions of nearby fingers, and observed that this contextual information could greatly decrease localization errors. The results suggest that only coarse proprioceptive information is available through somatosensation, and that finer information may not be necessary for fine motor behavior. These findings may help elucidate human hand function, and inform new applications to the design of human-computer interfaces or interactions in virtual reality. Z8 0

Teleoperation enables complex robot platforms to perform tasks beyond the scope of the current state-of-the-art robot autonomy by imparting human intelligence and critical thinking to these operations. For seamless control of robot platforms, it is essential to facilitate optimal situational awareness of the workspace for the operator through active telepresence cameras. However, the control of these active telepresence cameras adds an additional degree of complexity to the task of teleoperation. In this paper we present our results from the user study that investigates: (1) how the teleoperator learns or adapts to performing the tasks via active cameras modeled after camera placements on the TRINA humanoid robot; (2) the perception-action coupling operators implement to control active telepresence cameras, and (3) the camera preferences for performing the tasks. These findings from the human motion analysis and post-study survey will help us determine desired design features for robot teleoperation interfaces and assistive autonomy.

Virtual reality (VR) provides users with the ability to substitute their physical appearance by embodying virtual characters (avatars) using head-mounted displays and motion-capture technologies. Previous research demonstrated that the sense of embodiment toward an avatar can impact user behavior and cognition. In this paper, we present an experiment designed to investigate whether embodying a well-known creative genius could enhance participants' creative performance. Following a preliminary online survey (N = 157) to select a famous character suited to the purpose of this study, we developed a VR application allowing participants to embody Leonardo da Vinci or a self-avatar. Self-avatars were approximately matched with participants in terms of skin tone and morphology. 40 participants took part in three tasks seamlessly integrated in a virtual workshop. The first task was based on a Guilford's Alternate Uses test (GAU) to assess participants' divergent abilities in terms of fluency and originality. The second task was based on a Remote Associates Test (RAT) to evaluate convergent abilities. Lastly, the third task consisted in designing potential alternative uses of an object displayed in the virtual environment using a 3D sketching tool. Participants embodying Leonardo da Vinci demonstrated significantly higher divergent thinking abilities, with a substantial difference in fluency between the groups. Conversely, participants embodying a self-avatar performed significantly better in the convergent thinking task. Taken together, these results promote the use of our virtual embodiment approach, especially in applications where divergent creativity plays an important role, such as design and innovation.

While the ecological validity of virtual reality (VR) applications is usually assessed by behavioral data or interrogation, an alternative approach on a neuronal level is offered by brain imaging methods. Because it is yet unclear if 3D space in virtual environments is processed analogically to the real world, we conducted a study investigating virtual spatial processing in the brain using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Results show differences in VR spatial brain processing as compared to known brain activations in reality. Identifying differences and commonalities of brain processing in VR reveals limitations and holds important implications for VR therapy and training tools. When VR therapy aims at the rehabilitation of brain function and activity, differences in brain processing have to be taken into account for designing effective VR training tools. Furthermore, for an evaluation of possible restoration effects caused by VR training, it is necessary to integrate information about the brain activation networks elicited by the training. The present study provides an example for demonstrating the benefit of fMRI as an evaluation tool for the mental processes involved in virtual environments.

This paper presents the process for a case study concerning fully immersive application of physical environment. The paper considers intelligent systems integration to VR and self-learning activities with sociological aspects by significant experimental platform. Authors aim to detail the process of systematical design including modelling, computing, intelligence and an initial evolution of virtual environment. Also practical usage and futuristic aspects are included for the concept. As the project based on physical environment, target of the work is concentrated to give high presence feeling for end-users. To increasing presence feeling, authors aim to maximize immersion level. Self-learning activities based on the perception of supervised and unsupervised learning. The activities are engaged to immersive and entertaining structure. Heterogeneous intercontinental participants provide unique feedback source. The environment is research and development center of Tallinn University of Technology. The virtual environment of the center has been evaluated based on realistic conditions.

Surface texture is one of the important cues for human beings to identify objects. Haptic texture measurement is necessary for object recognition by touch. This paper presents a novel design of a haptic texture sensor by imitating human active texture perception. A thin polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) film is used as the sensitive element to fabricate a high-accuracy, high-speed-response haptic texture sensor, and a mechanism is designed to produce the relative motion at a certain speed between the haptic texture sensor and the surface of the perceived object with constant contact force. Thus, the surface texture property can be measured as the output charge of the PVDF film of the sensor induced by the small height/depth variation of the moving object surface. The experiments reveal that the proposed active haptic sensor is effective in detecting the feature signals of surface texture, and the measurement signal can be used not only for the classification of the object surfaces, but also for haptic texture display in virtual reality.

PurposeThis study aims to develop a novel theoretical model for predicting the users' intention to use virtual tools designed for construction risk evaluation. Risk evaluation is a vital objective for construction managers. This paper intends to examine critical factors such as potential benefits, motivation, performance expectancy and rich sources of information that may affect users' intention to use virtual technology. Design/methodology/approachA pile training module (PTM) was developed in a virtual environment to analyze the proposed virtual reality-technology acceptance model (VR-TAM) factors. Further, a questionnaire survey was conducted with the participation of 102 construction professionals in China to validate the proposed VR-TAM model and PTM tool. The retrieved data was computed to test the proposed model by using partial least squares structural equation modeling and the significance of the PTM tool in a virtual environment. FindingsThe results of this study reveal that high-significance paths represent five relationships between crucial factors affecting users' intention to use a selected virtual reality (VR) module. Five of seven hypothesis paths were significant with acceptable t-values. By quantitative measurement of high-significance paths, this research has found that each factor under VR-TAM has received significant loadings, with many above the 0.7 threshold mark and others around 0.6. The top factors include "motivation" and "benefits" and have multiplier effects on "intention to use" as the source factors. Practical implicationsThe finding of this study presents crucial factors for VR adoption, and the proposed VR-TAM model contributes to the body of knowledge toward managing construction risk using pre-optimization and understanding in a virtual environment. This study supports Chinese construction company managers in effectively using VR technology in their construction projects for risk assessment and management. Originality/valueThis study offered the development of a novel VR-TAM integrated with risk assessment techniques for piling processes. Further, the developed model was analyzed by using a survey of Chinese construction professionals to collect perceptions about the modified theoretical model of VR-TAM.

Wearable haptic interfaces prioritize user comfort, but also value the ability to provide diverse feedback patterns for immersive interactions with the virtual or augmented reality. Here, to provide both comfort and diverse tactile feedback, an easy-to-wear and multimodal wearable haptic auxetic fabric (WHAF) is prepared by knotting shape-memory alloy wires into an auxetic-structured fabric. This unique meta-design allows the WHAF to completely expand and contract in 3D, providing superior size-fitting and shape-fitting capabilities. Additionally, a microscale thin layer of Parylene is coated on the surface to create electrically separated zones within the WHAF, featuring zone-specified actuation for conveying diverse spatiotemporal information to users with using the WHAF alone. Depending on the body part it is worn on, the WHAF conveys either cutaneous or kinesthetic feedback, thus, working as a multimodal wearable haptic interface. As a result, when worn on the forearm, the WHAF intuitively provides spatiotemporal information to users during hands-free navigation and teleoperation in virtual reality, and when worn on the elbow, the WHAF guides users to reach the desired elbow flexion, like a personal exercise advisor. A novel auxetic-architectured wearable fabric actuator is developed by interlacing and knotting shape-memory alloy wires into auxetic structures. By incorporating meta-design, the auxetic-architectured fabric actuator shows unprecedented feature of size-fitting and self-fitting for superior wearability. Moreover, surface electrical property is adjusted to ensure zone-specified actuation, providing the wearer with spatiotemporally diverse multimodal tactile feedbackimage.

Latency is a pervasive issue in various systems that can significantly impact motor performance and user perception. In medical settings, latency can hinder surgeons' ability to quickly correct movements, resulting in an experience that doesn't align with user expectations and standards of care. Despite numerous studies reporting on the negative effects of latency, there is still a gap in understanding how it impacts the use of augmented reality (AR) in medical settings. This study aims to address this gap by examining how latency impacts motor task performance and subjective perceptions, such as cognitive load, on two display types: a monitor display, traditionally used inside an operating room (OR), and a Microsoft HoloLens 2 display. Our findings indicate that both level of latency and display type impact motor performance, and higher latencies on the HoloLens result in relatively poor performance. However, cognitive load was found to be unrelated to display type or latency, but was dependent on the surgeon's training level. Surgeons did not compromise accuracy to gain more speed and were generally well aware of the latency in the system irrespective of their performance on task. Our study provides valuable insights into acceptable thresholds of latency for AR displays and proposes design implications for the successful implementation and use of AR in surgical settings.

Despite the growth of the metaverse, users ' perception of their self-image based on the embodied elements remains unexplored. This research explores the metaverse world 's relationship between embodiment, experience, expression, and continuance intention. This research deploys an exploratory sequential mixed -method research design to operationalise the study objective. Study 1 performs a qualitative investigation to develop a hypothetical model, and Study 2 employs a 3 x 3 factorial experimental design with 356 participants to investigate the proposed hypotheses. The results indicate that embodied presence and co -presence can lead to positive continuance intentions. Also, it is crucial to develop self-image expressions in the metaverse space. This research offers multiple insights and advances the theoretical knowledge of cognitive embodiment, flow, cognitive bias, and expectancy confirmation theories. The results can also aid metaverse practitioners in designing an interactive metaverse domain.

Crossmodal correspondences refer to the tendency to associate a pair of features across different senses; specifically, consumers can associate the color of packaging with a certain flavor label for packaged foods after repeated exposure to the packaging of mainstream, everyday products. We conducted two studies to examine how the incongruency between packaging color and flavor labeling influences consumers' evaluations of a food product and their perceptions of a brand. The results revealed that the participants liked a food product less when its packaging color was incongruent with its flavor label, but the magnitude of this color-flavor incongruency effect decreased after participants repeatedly searched for these products on the shelves of a virtual supermarket. Participants also considered the brand of packaged foods to be more innovative when the products' packaging colors were incongruent with flavor labels, and the magnitude of this color-flavor incongruency effect on brand perception was not influenced by their experience of searching for a product in virtual reality. Together, these results suggested that crossmodal congruency is an important factor to consider in packaging design and can be used as a marketing tool to increase product likability and attract consumers' attention.

This paper investigates the effects of color, luminance, and transparency as depth distortion cues in Virtual Reality (VR) Head-mounted Displays (HMD). The aim is to tackle more in-depth immersion: focusing on interaction accuracy with transparent objects in HMDs. Due to the illumination and absence of texture, transparent objects are mainly displayed with colors. Recently, studies on transparent hands and objects have elucidated potential approaches regarding interaction with transparent elements. However, findings have not considered color and luminance as depth distortion cues for interacting in virtual landscapes. This paper used the forced-choice pairwise comparison experiment method and evaluated data based on the Kendall coefficient of agreement and consistency. Reverse effects of transparency on color and luminance are discovered. Cool colors are perceived nearer than warm colors in 90% transparency. Dark colors are sensed closer than bright colors in high transparency levels. These results reject the classical effects of color and luminance within VR HMDs. These findings help VR design tool developers who emphasize a particular use of depth cues. Designers can utilize the studied effects of color and luminance on transparent objects as an advantage in designing more interactive and immersive virtual landscapes.

As vulnerable road users, cyclists were often killed or injured because they were not perceived by drivers on rural roads on time. Nowadays, many sensor technology and assistance systems are used to improve traffic safety and efficiency. However, few studies focus on the interaction between drivers and cyclists, especially enhancing drivers' perception of cyclists. Following a cooperative support framework between drivers and vehicles, we designed an interface to improve drivers' perception of cyclists using Augmented Reality (AR) and then evaluated it in the driving simulator. The results show that driving behavior regarding the distance to the cyclist shows a significant change while the driver is supported by the developed AR interface. Consequently, the results implicate that the safety of vulnerable traffic participants can be increased, using a cooperation strategy between the driver and the vehicle. The behaviour while driving manually can be persuaded by the system without any distraction of the driver.

The design of 3D user interfaces (3DUIs) for immersive headmounted display (HMD) environments is an inherently difficult task. The fact that usually haptic feedback is absent and that visual body feedback is missing, hinders an efficient direct interaction with virtual objects. Moreover, the perceptual conflicts, such as double vision and space misperception, as well as the well-known vergence-accommodation mismatch further complicate the interaction, in particular with virtual objects floating in the virtual environment (VE). However, the potential benefits of direct and natural interaction offered by immersive virtual environments (IVEs) encourage the research in the field to create more efficient selection methods. Utilizing a Fitts' Law experiment, we analyzed the 3D direct selection of objects in the virtual 3D space as they might occur for 3D menus or floating objects in space. We examined the direct interaction space in front of the user and divided it into a set of interaction regions for which we compared different levels of selection difficulty. Our results indicate that the selection errors are highest along the view axis, less along the motion axis and marginal along the orthogonal plane. Based on these results we suggest some guidelines for the design of direct selection techniques in IVEs.

Dynamic field of view (FOV) restrictors have been successfully used to reduce visually induced motion sickness (VIMS) during continuous viewpoint motion control (virtual travel) in virtual reality (VR). This benefit, however, comes at the cost of losing peripheral awareness during provocative motion. Likewise, the use of visual references that are stable in relation to the physical environment, called rest frames (RFs), has also been shown to reduce discomfort during virtual travel tasks in VR. We propose a new RF-based design called Granulated Rest Frames (GRFs) with a soft-edged circular cutout in the center that leverages the rest frames' benefits without completely blocking the user's peripheral view. The GRF design is application-agnostic and does not rely on context-specific RFs, such as commonly used cockpits. We report on a within-subjects experiment with 20 participants. The results suggest that, by strategically applying GRFs during a visual search session in VR, we can achieve better item searching efficiency as compared to restricted FOV. The effect of GRFs on reducing VIMS remains to be determined by future work.

This article presents a 4-degrees-of-freedom (4-DoF) hand wearable haptic device for Virtual Reality (VR). It is designed to support different end-effectors, that can be easily exchanged so as to provide a wide range of haptic sensations. The device is composed of a static upper body, secured to the back of the hand, and the (changeable) end-effector, placed in contact with the palm. The two parts of the device are connected by two articulated arms, actuated by four servo motors housed on the upper body and along the arms. The article summarizes the design and kinematics of the wearable haptic device and presents a position control scheme able to actuate a broad range of end-effectors. As a proof of concept, we present and evaluate three representative end-effectors during interactions in VR, rendering the sensation of interacting (E1) with rigid slanted surfaces and sharp edges having different orientations, (E2) with curved surfaces having different curvatures, and (E3) with soft surfaces having different stiffness characteristics. A few additional end-effector designs are discussed. A human-subjects evaluation in immersive VR shows the broad applicability of the device, able to render rich interactions with a diverse set of virtual objects.

Combining virtual reality (VR) and serious games has shown high potential to raise understanding for patients and how symptoms might impact their well-being. To investigate migraine symptoms, we developed a visual migraine simulation in a virtual environment (VE) using a VR head-mounted display (HMD). For the migraine visualization we developed a migraine aura combined with an overexposure effect. We conducted a user study (N = 32) in a within-subject design with two conditions: (1) taking the perspective of a migraine patient and only imagining to suffer from migraine, (2) experiencing migraine by additionally being exposed to a migraine visualization. Participants answered questionnaires measuring their empathic reaction towards migraine patients and their experienced presence. Results yield that participants showed a significantly and notably higher empathic reaction and a slightly stronger sense of presence when visually experiencing migraine symptoms, compared to only imagining to suffer from migraine.

Purpose Mobile e-commerce has brought convenience to consumers. But for goods such as shoes, mobile e-commerce has failed to provide the same experience as consumers would have in physical stores, and that also causes problems for online merchants, such as high return rates. As a result, the augmented reality (AR) virtual shoe-try-on function appeared. The way that AR virtual shoe-try-on study different from other AR virtual try-on studies is that AR virtual shoe-try-on study only satisfies consumers' visual experience and consumers cannot judge whether the shoes are comfort or not. Whether consumers would accept AR virtual try-on function to help them make purchase decision due to the visual experience provided by AR virtual try-on function is worth discussion. Measuring users' perceptions and preferences can help companies design AR shoe-trying functions and provide services more cost-effectively. Design/methodology/approach To promote the continuous use and better development of such mobile e-commerce based on the technology acceptance model (TAM), this study explored the influencing factors for users' intentions to continue using the AR virtual shoe-try-on function, including the perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, system quality, perceived playfulness and attitude. Findings The results of this study showed that TAM is a powerful theoretical tool of the new technology in mobile e-commerce and that the system quality and perceived playfulness also have a positive impact on the original variables of TAM. System quality and perceived playfulness are important predictors of users' continuance intentions to use the AR virtual shoe-try-on function. Originality/value The main contribution of this study to model iteration and theoretical update is to verify the applicability of the TAM in the AR shoe-try-on function and to expand TAM model with system quality and perceived playfulness. The authors' results will help shoe enterprises win users' recognition through AR shoe-try-on function and improve users' continuance intention of use.

A key challenge in haptics is designing human-human communications involving touch to facilitate positive effects on social interactions. An important consideration in designing social touch is understanding the effect of social stimuli on perception, in addition to that of a physical stimulus, because social touch always involves a partner. This study presents an experiment to demonstrate that facial expressions induce haptic perception. We developed a human-agent interaction system on a display in which participants moved the mouse cursor to click the target icon while the agent behaved as if it pulled the cursor back in the opposite direction, showing either a negative or neutral face. The perceived force during the interaction was quantified by the control display ratio using a psychophysical approach. The results show that the negative face induced a significantly greater perceived force than the neutral face. In addition, the perceived force correlated with the individual's evaluation of the facial expression; that is, the more unpleasant or aroused they perceived the facial expression to be, the more force they perceived. This study sheds light on the design of social touch performed by people who have physical or mediated contact with each other in physical space or cyberspace.

Product designers, in order to create value, need to enrich their understanding of users products experience and the whole set of activities involved in it Human-Centered Design (HCD) regards with the development of design principles to support product features definition answering to physical, psychological, social and cultural needs of human beings Usability tests generally allow the investigation of product performance in terms of efficiency, effectiveness and users satisfaction in order to reduce the gap between the perceived and the designed product quality Main problems concern with the assessment of emotional usability, the identification of product features stimulating affective response and their translation into design requirements Usability tests are generally carried out only at the end of the design cycle once a final physical prototype has been realized As a consequence design modifications increase time to market Instead of traditional CAD-based systems (Computer Aided Design) Virtual Reality (VR) represents new Human-Computer Interfaces that can support the multimodal interaction with virtual prototypes to perform usability tests at the early design stages The present paper explores the potentialities of VR to support usability testing mainly focusing on emotional aspects A protocol study is defined to analyze how sample users perceive product attributes determining affordances and synaesthesia qualities The protocol adopts qualitative and quantitative metrics to objectify users emotional response while interacting with products It allows correlating product attributes in terms of materials shape and aesthetic features combination with user behavior and product performance It has been applied in the field of household appliances Two different experimental set-ups, physical and virtual, have been used to validate the protocol and highlight the main VR technologies drawbacks

Floor plan designs and their spatial analysis are typically constrained to blueprints and 2D projections of 3D models. Computing appropriate spatial measures from such representations provides a standard way of quantifying important aspects of the design. We wish to investigate whether a person's perceptual exploration of a space would agree with such spatial measures, that is, whether a person can roughly infer such measures by exploring a space. We perform two studies, one involving novices and the other experts. First, we conduct a perceptual study to discover whether a novice user's perception of spatial measures depends on the mode used to explore the space. Our analysis considers three spatial measures, grounded in Space-Syntax, that characterize key aspects of a design such as visibility, accessibility, and organization. We compare three modes of exploration: 2D blueprints, first-person view in a 3D simulation, and a 3D virtual reality simulation with teleportation. A correlation analysis between the users' perceptual ratings and the spatial measures, indicates that virtual reality is the most effective of the three methods, while 2D blueprints and 3D first-person exploration often fail entirely to convey the spatial measures. In the second study, experts are asked to evaluate and rank the design blueprints for each measure. The expert observations are in strong agreement with the spatial measures for accessibility and organization, but not for visibility in some cases. This indicates that even experts have difficulty understanding spatial aspects of an architecture design from 2D blueprints alone.

Intelligent advisory services are becoming increasingly pervasive. Ranging from e-Commerce to e-Government platforms, intelligent advisory systems, with user-centered design, can potentially overcome technical barriers that commonly exist on traditional websites. This study explores the impact of system-user communication style similarities on the user's perception towards the virtual advisory service in the healthcare domain. Drawing on Similarity-Attraction Theory, we propose a research framework to investigate this relationship. Through a mixed-method approach, including preliminary surveys, experiments and follow-up interviews, this study shows that an intelligent advisory system's communication style, when aligned well with a user's communication style, can better engage the user and lead to more perceived transparency, enjoyment, informativeness and credibility during the interaction process. Overall, hedonic aspects of user perceptions are shown to be more critical for creating a feeling of social presence and reuse intentions than utilitarian ones. The implications of the study for research and practice are then discussed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Motion tracking systems are commonly used in virtual reality-based interventions to detect movements in the real world and transfer them to the virtual environment. There are different tracking solutions based on different physical principles, which mainly define their performance parameters. However, special requirements have to be considered for rehabilitation purposes. This paper studies and compares the accuracy and jitter of three tracking solutions (optical, electromagnetic, and skeleton tracking) in a practical scenario and analyzes the subjective perceptions of 19 healthy subjects, 22 stroke survivors, and 14 physical therapists. The optical tracking system provided the best accuracy (1.074 +/- 0.417 cm) while the electromagnetic device provided the most inaccurate results (11.027 +/- 2.364 cm). However, this tracking solution provided the best jitter values (0.324 +/- 0.093 cm), in contrast to the skeleton tracking, which had the worst results (1.522 +/- 0.858 cm). Healthy individuals and professionals preferred the skeleton tracking solution rather than the optical and electromagnetic solution (in that order). Individuals with stroke chose the optical solution over the other options. Our results show that subjective perceptions and preferences are far from being constant among different populations, thus suggesting that these considerations, together with the performance parameters, should be also taken into account when designing a rehabilitation system.

Purpose: To: 1) characterize the overall experience in using the McGill immersive wheelchair - community centre (miWe-CC) simulator; and 2) investigate the experience of presence (i.e., sense of being in the virtual rather than in the real, physical environment) while driving a PW in the miWe-CC. Method: A qualitative research design with structured interviews was used. Fifteen clinicians and 11 children were interviewed after driving a power wheelchair (PW) in the miWe-CC simulator. Data were analyzed using the conventional and directed content analysis approaches. Results: Overall, participants enjoyed using the simulator and experienced a sense of presence in the virtual space. They felt a sense of being in the virtual environment, involved and focused on driving the virtual PW rather than on the surroundings of the actual room where they were. Participants reported several similarities between the virtual community centre layout and activities of the miWe-CC and the day-to-day reality of paediatric PW users. Conclusion: The simulator replicated participants' expectations of real-life PW use and promises to have an effect on improving the driving skills of new PW users. Z8 0

Virtual sport coaches guide users through their physical activity and provide motivational support. Users' motivation can rapidly decay if the movements of the virtual coach are too stereotyped. Kinematic patterns generated while performing a predefined fitness movement can elicit and help to prolong users' interaction and interest in training. Human body kinematics has been shown to convey various social attributes such as gender, identity, and acted emotions. To date, no study provides information regarding how spontaneous emotions and personality traits together are perceived from full-body movements. In this article, we study how people make reliable inferences regarding spontaneous emotional dimensions and personality traits of human coaches from kinematic patterns they produced when performing a fitness sequence. Movements were presented to participants via a virtual mannequin to isolate the influence of kinematics on perception. Kinematic patterns of biological movement were analyzed in terms of movement qualities according to the effort-shape [Dell 1977] notation proposed by Laban [1950]. Three studies were performed to provide an analysis of the process leading to perception: from coaches' states and traits through bodily movements to observers' social perception. Thirty-two participants (i.e., observers) were asked to rate the movements of the virtual mannequin in terms of conveyed emotion dimensions, personality traits (five-factor model of personality), and perceived movement qualities (effort-shape) from 56 fitness movement sequences. The results showed high reliability for most of the evaluated dimensions, confirming interobserver agreement from kinematics at zero acquaintance. A large expressive halo merging emotional (e.g., perceived intensity) and personality aspects (e.g., extraversion) was found, driven by perceived kinematic impulsivity and energy. Observers' perceptions were partially accurate for emotion dimensions and were not accurate for personality traits. Together, these results contribute to both the understanding of dimensions of social perception through movement and the design of expressive virtual sport coaches.

In-person human interaction relies on our spatial perception of each other and our surroundings. Current remote communication tools partially address each of these aspects. Video calls convey real user representations but without spatial interactions. Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) experiences are immersive and spatial but often use virtual environments and characters instead of real-life representations. Bridging these gaps, we introduce DualStream, a system for synchronous mobile AR remote communication that captures, streams, and displays spatial representations of users and their surroundings. DualStream supports transitions between user and environment representations with different levels of visuospatial fidelity, as well as the creation of persistent shared spaces using environment snapshots. We demonstrate how DualStream can enable spatial communication in real-world contexts, and support the creation of blended spaces for collaboration. A formative evaluation of DualStream revealed that users valued the ability to interact spatially and move between representations, and could see DualStream fitting into their own remote communication practices in the near future. Drawing from these findings, we discuss new opportunities for designing more widely accessible spatial communication tools, centered around the mobile phone.

Virtual Reality (VR) users typically either sit or stand/walk when using VR; however, the impact of this is little researched, and there is a lack of any broad or systematic analysis of how this difference in physical posture might affect user experience and behavior. To address this gap, we propose such a systematic analysis that was refined through discussions and iterations during a dedicated workshop with VR experts. This analysis was complemented by an online survey to integrate the perspectives of a larger and more diverse group of VR experts, including developers and power users. The result is a validated expert assessment of the impact of posture and degree of embodiment on the most relevant aspects of VR experience and behavior. In particular, we posit potential strong effects of posture on user comfort, safety, self-motion perception, engagement, and accessibility. We further argue that the degree of embodiment can strongly impact cybersickness, locomotion precision, safety, self-motion perception, engagement, technical complexity, and accessibility. We provide a compact visualization of key findings and discuss areas where posture and embodiment do or do not have a known influence, as well as highlight open questions that could guide future research and VR design efforts.

Teleportation, which instantly moves users from their current location to the target location, has become the most popular locomotion technique in VR games. It enables fast navigation with reduced VR sickness but results in significantly reduced immersion. We present HeadWind, a novel approach to improve the experience of teleportation by simulating the haptic sensation of air drag when rapidly moving through the air in real life. Specifically, HeadWind modulates bursts of compressed air to the face and uses multiple nozzles to provide directional cues. To design the wearable device and to model airflow speed and duration for teleportation, we conducted three formative studies and a design session. User experience evaluation with 24 participants showed that HeadWind significantly improved realism, immersion, and enjoyment of teleportation in VR (p<.01) with large effect sizes (r>0.5), and was preferred by 96% of participants.

This research looks at the human ability to perceive haptic information when using Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) tools. In the simulation of MIS it is important to understand what haptic information can be perceived by a user. Understanding what can be felt allows the force feedback system of the simulator to be optimized.

This randomized, controlled, within-subjects (crossover design) study examined the effects of immersive virtual reality as an adjunctive analgesic technique for hospitalized pediatric burn inpatients undergoing painful physical therapy. Fifty-four subjects (6-19 years old) performed range-of-motion exercises under a therapist's direction for 1-5 days. During each session, subjects spent equivalent time in both the virtual reality and the control conditions (treatment order randomized and counterbalanced). Graphic rating scale scores assessing the sensory, affective, and cognitive components of pain were obtained for each treatment condition. Secondary outcomes assessed subjects' perception of the virtual reality experience and maximum range-of-motion. Results showed that on study day one, subjects reported significant decreases (27-44%) in pain ratings during virtual reality. They also reported improved affect ("fun") during virtual reality. The analgesia and affect improvements were maintained with repeated virtual reality use over multiple therapy sessions. Maximum range-of-motion was not different between treatment conditions, but was significantly greater after the second treatment condition (regardless of treatment order). These results suggest that immersive virtual reality is an effective nonpharmacologic, adjunctive pain reduction technique in the pediatric burn population undergoing painful rehabilitation therapy. The magnitude of the analgesic effect is clinically meaningful and is maintained with repeated use. (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

Force feedback in tool-mediated interactions with the environment is important for the successful performance of complex tasks in daily life as well as in specialized fields such as medicine. Most stylus-based haptic devices require either grounding or attachment to the user's body. Recently, non-grounded haptic devices have attracted a growing interest. In this study, we propose a non-grounded rotation mechanism to represent the vertical forces applied on the tip of a tool by mimicking the cutaneous sensations that are caused by such forces. As an example of an application of our method, we developed a non-grounded haptic device called HapSticks, which mimicked the sensation of manipulating objects using chopsticks. First, using an adjustment paradigm, we directly compared a virtual weight rendered by our device and a real weight to investigate the relation of real weight and virtual weight. Next, we used a forced choice constant stimuli paradigm in a virtual and a real weight discrimination task. We conclude that our novel device renders a reliable illusion of sensed weight that leads to a discrimination ability that is typical of virtual-reality applications but worse than the discrimination between real weights.

In the aspiration to design the built environment, architects and designers are continuously trying to create spaces that positively affect users. Both aspects of rational and emotional combined simultaneously with technological advancement are essential to implement in a comprehensive architectural design process. While our ability to create complex architectural forms through computation is in the state of a continuous improvement, our knowledge about their emotional effects over users remain ambiguous. Recent developments in simulation of virtual spaces, along with advancement in neuroscience may enable us to conduct an empirical research on the way we perceive space and the way space affects us emotionally. This paper presents initial results from an ongoing research that examines the connection between human feelings and architectural space. We discuss the first stage of the research in which as we examine the emotional reaction of designers and non-designers to various spatial geometries in an immersive 3D virtual environment inside a visualization laboratory. We then present the methodology for the second stage of the research, in which we repeat the experiment while using Electroencephalography (EEG) device together with a wireless eye tracker and emotional engagement measurements (EEM) system.

The lack of visible and approachable ways of training surgical skills is one of the main problems in medical education. Existing simulation training devices are not designed to teach students, and are not available due to the high cost of the equipment. Using modern technologies such as virtual reality and hands movements fixation technology we want to create innovative method of learning the technics of conducting operations in 3D game format, which can make education process interesting and effective. Creating of 3D format virtual simulator will allow to solve several conceptual problems at once: opportunity of practical skills improvement unlimited by the time without the risk for patient, high realism of environment in operational and anatomic body structures, using of game mechanics for information perception relief and memorization of methods acceleration, accessibility of this program.

This paper reports new findings of our ongoing research on perceived instability that human users frequently experience from interacting with virtual textures rendered with a force-feedback haptic interface. Our work is aimed at a better understanding of a new type of perceived instability called "aliveness", which was discovered during our previous psychophysical experiments performed using a popular texture rendering method (spring model with fixed force directions) and a common texture model (position-based sinusoidal grating). We first examine the perceptual and physical characteristics of the proximal stimuli that cause the perception of aliveness in virtual textures. It leads to the hypothesis that the virtual environment model used for computing texture-perturbing forces, not the traditional control-related instabilities of the haptic texture rendering system, is responsible for aliveness perception. We show that this conjecture is true by applying passivity-based stability theory to the position and force data measured during user interaction with virtual textures. Examples of the data where the haptic texture rendering system is passive (therefore stable) and aliveness is perceived are provided to substantiate our conclusions. Our results point to the importance of designing haptic texture rendering methods and models that are free of perceptual artifacts.

Realistic haptic feedback of virtual human avatars would make the virtual world more alive. In the direction of this goal, we focused on making pneumatic actuated haptic glove to augment the perception of human skin response. We have designed a pneumatic controlled actuation with silicone-made cavities (end-effectors), which are situated at the fingertips and the center of the palm embedded within the glove. Various positive air pressure is used to inflate the chambers to perceive soft skins with different shape, stiffness, and homogeneity. The palm actuator is to provide feedback for a grasping interaction, whereas the fingertip actuators are used to generate finger-based touch, e.g., pinching with two fingers. The VR environment with the HMD is designed to improve the immersive experience. Altogether, the system is controlled wirelessly. In this work, we will demonstrate the various scenario of human body parts in which the user can interact with and touch the human to perceive the natural haptic feedback from the skin.

This paper reports the results of our current research towards a qualitative characterization of the instability that a human user often perceives from a virtual textured surface rendered with a force-reflecting haptic interface. Based on our previous study of perceptual instability during haptic texture rendering, an experiment is designed and conducted in order to measure the proximal stimuli delivered by the virtual textures in terms of several physical variables (position, force, and acceleration). The measured data are analyzed in the frequency domain and characterized by sensation levels with regards to the human detection thresholds for temporal stimuli. In particular, a spectral band that conveys texture information and another one that induces instability perception are identified along with their associated sensation levels. These frequency bands excite different mechanoreceptors in the skin, and are therefore perceptually distinctive.

This study delineates the design of an exploratory study which investigates the potential of using an interactive installation, Anikee, as unorthodox pedagogical tool to support children learning of the target language. The purpose of this study is to implement instructional gaming and adopt an inductive approach to investigate user perceptions engendered from interact Anikee as a language learning tool. The researchers' working hypothesis is that interactive installation could serve as a virtual context rich in social interactions which could be conducive to the emergent development of communicative competence. Qualitative data will be collected from interviews and a post-interaction questionnaire and will be transcribed and analyzed. Analysis of interview and textual data focuses on how user-generated perceptions could be accounted for based on Hahha and Wozniak (2001) motivation theory. Coding schemes reflecting participants' motivational trends in playing the interactive installation to learn English will be generated by multiple researchers to ensure inter-rater reliability. These user-generated perceptions could illuminate the strengths and weaknesses of utilizing digital media for media-assisted language learning and also inform motivations in playing to learn, digital play-based learning research, and future digital media design.

Virtual reality is a powerful tool for teaching 3D digital technologies in building engineering, as it facilitates the spatial perception of three-dimensional space. Spatial orientation skill is necessary for understanding 3D space. With VR, users navigate through virtually designed buildings and must be constantly aware of their position relative to other elements of the environment (orientation during navigation). In the present study, 25 building engineering students performed navigation tasks in a desktop-VR environment workshop. Performance of students using the desktop-VR was compared to a previous workshop in which navigation tasks were carried out using head-mounted displays. The Perspective Taking/Spatial Orientation Test measured spatial orientation skill. A questionnaire on user experience in the virtual environment was also administered. The gain in spatial orientation skill was 12.62%, similar to that obtained with head-mounted displays (14.23%). The desktop VR environment is an alternative to the HMD-VR environment for planning strategies to improve spatial orientation. Results from the user-experience questionnaire showed that the desktop VR environment strategy was well perceived by students in terms of interaction, 3D visualization, navigation, and sense of presence. Unlike in the HDM VR environment, student in the desktop VR environment did not report feelings of fatigue or dizziness.

Cochlear implants (CI) enable hearing in individuals with sensorineural hearing loss, albeit with difficulties in speech perception and sound localization. In noisy environments, these difficulties are disproportionately greater for CI users than for children with no reported hearing loss. Parents of children with CIs are motivated to experience what CIs sound like, but options to do so are limited. This study proposes using virtual reality to simulate having CIs in a school setting with two contrasting settings: a noisy playground and a quiet classroom. To investigate differences between hearing conditions, an evaluation utilized a between-subjects design with 15 parents (10 female, 5 male; age M = 38.5, SD = 6.6) of children with CIs with no reported hearing loss. In the virtual environment, a word recognition and sound localization test using an open-set speech corpus compared differences between simulated unilateral CI, simulated bilateral CI, and normal hearing conditions in both settings. Results of both tests indicate that noise influences word recognition more than it influences sound localization, but ultimately affects both. Furthermore, bilateral CIs are equally to or significantly beneficial over having a simulated unilateral CI in both tests. A follow-up qualitative evaluation showed that the simulation enabled users to achieve a better understanding of what it means to be an hearing impaired child.

Context: Software engineering is becoming more and more distributed. Developers and other stakeholders are often located in different locations, departments, and countries and operating within different time zones. Most online software design and modeling tools are not adequate for distributed collaboration since they do not support awareness and lack features for effective communication.Objective: The aim of our research is to support distributed software design activities in Virtual Reality (VR).Method: Using design science research methodology, we design and evaluate a tool for collaborative design in VR. We evaluate the collaboration efficiency and recall of design information when using the VR software design environment compared to a non-VR software design environment. Moreover, we collect the perceptions and preferences of users to explore the opportunities and challenges that were incurred by using the VR software design environment. Results: We find that there is no significant difference in the efficiency and recall of design information when using the VR compared to the non-VR environment. Furthermore, we find that developers are more satisfied with collaboration in VR.Conclusion: The results of our research and similar studies show that working in VR is not yet faster or more efficient than working on standard desktops. It is very important to improve the interface in VR (gestures with haptics, keyboard and voice input), as confirmed by the difference in results between the first and second evaluation.

The sensation of self-motion is essential in many virtual reality applications, from entertainment to training, such as flying and driving simulators. If the common approach used in amusement parks is to actuate the seats with cumbersome systems, multisensory integration can also be leveraged to get rich effects from lightweight solutions. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach called the "Kinesthetic HMD": actuating a head-mounted display with force feedback in order to provide sensations of self-motion. We discuss its design considerations and demonstrate an augmented flight simulator use case with a proof-of-concept prototype. We conducted a user study assessing our approach's ability to enhance self-motion sensations. Taken together, our results show that our Kinesthetic HMD provides significantly stronger and more egocentric sensations than a visual-only self-motion experience. Thus, by providing congruent vestibular and proprioceptive cues related to balance and self-motion, the Kinesthetic HMD represents a promising approach for a variety of virtual reality applications in which motion sensations are prominent.

Virtual reality (VR) is distinguished by the rich, multimodal, immersive sensory information and affordances provided to the user. However, when moving about an immersive virtual world the visual display often conflicts with other sensory cues due to design, the nature of the simulation, or to system limitations (for example impoverished vestibular motion cues during acceleration in racing games). Given that conflicts between sensory cues have been associated with disorientation or discomfort, and theoretically could distort spatial perception, it is important that we understand how and when they are manifested in the user experience. To this end, this set of experiments investigates the impact of mismatch between physical and virtual motion parallax on the perception of the depth of an apparently perpendicular dihedral angle (a fold) and its distance. We applied gain distortions between visual and kinesthetic head motion during lateral sway movements and measured the effect of gain on depth, distance and lateral space compression. We found that under monocular viewing, observers made smaller object depth and distance settings especially when the gain was greater than 1. Estimates of target distance declined with increasing gain under monocular viewing. Similarly, mean set depth decreased with increasing gain under monocular viewing, except at 6.0 m. The effect of gain was minimal when observers viewed the stimulus binocularly. Further, binocular viewing (stereopsis) improved the precision but not necessarily the accuracy of gain perception. Overall, the lateral compression of space was similar in the stereoscopic and monocular test conditions. Taken together, our results show that the use of large presentation distances (at 6 m) combined with binocular cues to depth and distance enhanced humans' tolerance to visual and kinesthetic mismatch.

As virtual reality (VR) headsets continue to achieve ever more immersive visuals along the axes of resolution, field of view, focal cues, distortion mitigation, and so on, the luminance and dynamic range of these devices falls far short of widely available consumer televisions. While work remains to be done on the display architecture side, power and weight limitations in head-mounted displays pose a challenge for designs aiming for high luminance. In this paper, we seek to gain a basic understanding of VR user preferences for display luminance values in relation to known, real-world luminances for immersive, natural scenes. To do so, we analyze the luminance characteristics of an existing high-dynamic-range (HDR) panoramic image dataset, build an HDR VR headset capable of reproducing over 20,000 nits peak luminance, and conduct a first-of-its-kind study on user brightness preferences in VR. We conclude that current commercial VR headsets do not meet user preferences for display luminance, even for indoor scenes.

Redirected jumping (RDJ) is a locomotion technique that allows users to explore a virtual space that is larger than the available physical space by imperceptibly manipulating users' virtual viewpoints according to different gains. In previous redirected jumping work, different types of gains were imposed separately, without considering the possible interaction effects of horizontal and vertical gains on the jumping distance perception. To figure out how humans perceive distance manipulation when more than one gain is used, in this paper, we explored joint horizontal and vertical gains that manipulate horizontal and vertical distances at the same time during two-legged takeoff jumping in the virtual space. We estimated and analyzed horizontal and vertical detection thresholds by conducting a user study, fitting the data to two-dimensional psychometric functions, and visualizing the fitted 3D plots. We provided quantitative insights into the effects of joint gains on detection thresholds, where the imperceptible range for one gain can be affected by the variation of the other gain. Finally, we designed redirected jumping-based gams as applications with joint horizontal and vertical gains and demonstrated the effectiveness of the redirected jumping technique.

In this article, we propose an approach towards an infinite surface haptic display. Our approach, named ENcountered-Type ROtating Prop Approach (ENTROPiA) is based on a cylindrical spinning prop attached to a robot's end-effector serving as an encountered-type haptic display (ETHD). This type of haptic display permits the users to have an unconstrained, free-hand contact with a surface being provided by a robotic device for the users' to encounter a surface to be touched. In our approach, the sensation of touching a virtual surface is given by an interaction technique that couples with the sliding movement of the prop under the users' finger by tracking their hand location and establishing a path to be explored. This approach enables large motion for a larger surface rendering, permits to render multi-textured haptic feedback, and leverages the ETHD approach introducing large motion and sliding/friction sensations. As a part of our contribution, a proof of concept was designed for illustrating our approach. A user study was conducted to assess the perception of our approach showing a significant performance for rendering the sensation of touching a large flat surface. Our approach could be used to render large haptic surfaces in applications such as rapid prototyping for automobile design.

In this work we propose a control architecture that leads to an intrinsically stable bilateral teleoperation system where the telepresence of the user is improved in terms of remote force discrimination We identify through a set of psychophysical experiments a variable force scaling matrix that improves the operator s feeling of the remote environment We show that it is possible to build a passive control scheme that embeds this perception centric scaling Finally an experiment is presented to validate the results proposed in the paper (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd All rights reserved

Herein, we describe the Virtually Enhanced Senses (VES) system, a novel and highly configurable wireless sensor-actuator network conceived as a development and test-bench platform of navigation systems adapted for blind and visually impaired people. It allows to immerse its users into "walkable" purely virtual or mixed environments with simulated sensors and validate navigation system designs prior to prototype development. The haptic, acoustic, and proprioceptive feedback supports state-of-art sensory substitution devices (SSD). In this regard, three SSD were integrated in VES as examples, including the well-known "The vOICe". Additionally, the data throughput, latency and packet loss of the wireless communication can be controlled to observe its impact in the provided spatial knowledge and resulting mobility and orientation performance. Finally, the system has been validated by testing a combination of two previous visual-acoustic and visual-haptic sensory substitution schemas with 23 normal-sighted subjects. The recorded data includes the output of a "gaze-tracking" utility adapted for SSD. Z8 0

Little is known about how individuals come to relate to settings in virtual worlds (VWs), which are defined as digital environments in which individuals, groups, and even organizations interact in virtual (that is to say, nonphysical) spaces. This research develops a theory of virtual space and place (VSP), specifically relating this to the setting of Second Life (SL), a prominent social virtual world. We explore how three-dimensional space, as perceived by users, is able to provide them with an interactive experience with virtual objects, as well as with other VW denizens. To test our theory, we build interactive work tools in SL that are designed to reflect various degrees of motion range and to influence presence. The three information technology tools are evaluated by 150 business professionals who are either familiar or unfamiliar with SL. Implications for practice and directions for future research are discussed.

Enclosing objects in the hand is a common and efficient way of haptic exploration. Recently, the importance of grasping for more realistic haptic perception of virtual objects has been recognised in haptic interface design. While several studies on haptic perception have addressed haptic exploration of a single object, perception of several objects grasped together in the hand has received almost no attention yet. In this study we focus on the importance of freedom to manipulate the objects in the hand for three-dimensional shape perception. Furthermore, we investigate differences in detection speed for different positions in the grasping hand. Subjects were asked to search for a cube among spheres or for a sphere among cubes. Response times were measured for different locations of target shape in the hand. Also, the way in which the items were fixed was varied from allowing small displacements and rotation of the shapes to rigidly fixed. There were only differences in search times between the different positions in the hand, when the centre item was difficult to access because of the surrounding items. Finally, we show that search was faster when the items were rigidly fixed than when displacement and rotation was possible. This shows that more exploratory freedom does not necessarily make search for a three-dimensional shape faster.

Three-dimensional virtual representations of consumer products are expected to gain relevance in e-commerce applications as low cost virtual reality headsets arrive on the market in the next years. However, there are a limited number of studies related to the perceptual evaluation of virtual products and their packaging where virtual and real (photographic) representations are compared. As part of an extensive exploration toward understanding product perception in virtual stores, this work presents a study with 38 participants in which consumer perceptions of a photographic and a virtual representation of a beer bottle are examined. Perceptual evaluation is assessed using two metrics: first, an evaluation was performed by applying a bipolar semantic scale based on four axes: novelty, resolution, style and emotion. Second, eye-tracking metrics were employed to analyse participant gaze behaviour during the visualization of stimuli. Virtual bottles were modelled using a medium polygonal load (5K polygons per bottle), and render quality was also medium to intentionally recreate the computing limitations of smartphone-based virtual reality headsets. Results show that a medium render quality alters consumer perception and responses using semantic scales. Eye-tracking analysis confirms that the orientation of the bottle and how it is presented also affect consumer perception. While some orientations result in similar eye-tracking metrics, others show different results. Copyright (c) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Evidence exists that virtual worlds reduce pain perception by providing distraction. However, there is no experimental study to show that the type of world used in virtual reality ( VR) distraction influences pain perception. Therefore, we investigated whether pain triggered by heat or cold stimuli is modulated by "warm" or "cold" virtual environments and whether virtual worlds reduce pain perception more than does static picture presentation. We expected that cold worlds would reduce pain perception from heat stimuli, while warm environments would reduce pain perception from cold stimuli. Additionally, both virtual worlds should reduce pain perception in general. Heat and cold pain stimuli thresholds were assessed outside VR in 48 volunteers in a balanced crossover design. Participants completed three 4-minute assessment periods: virtual "walks" through ( 1) a winter and ( 2) an autumn landscape and static exposure to ( 3) a neutral landscape. During each period, five heat stimuli or three cold stimuli were delivered via a thermode on the participant's arm, and affective and sensory pain perceptions were rated. Then the thermode was changed to the other arm, and the procedure was repeated with the opposite pain stimuli ( heat or cold). We found that both warm and cold virtual environments reduced pain intensity and unpleasantness for heat and cold pain stimuli when compared to the control condition. Since participants wore a head-mounted display ( HMD) in both the control condition and VR, we concluded that the distracting value of virtual environments is not explained solely by excluding perception of the real world. Although VR reduced pain unpleasantness, we found no difference in efficacy between the types of virtual world used for each pain stimulus.

The purpose of the research proposed herein is to develop an empirical, methodological tool for the assessment of visual depth perception in virtual environments (VEs). Our goal is to develop and employ a behaviorally-based method for assessing the impact of VE design features on the perception of visual depth as indexed by the performance of fundamental perceptual-motor activities. Specifically, in this experiment we will assess the affect of two dimensions of VE system design - (I) viewing condition or "level of immersion", and (2) layout/design of the VE - on the performance of an engaging, game-like task. The characteristics of the task to be employed are as follows - (1) it places no demands on cognition in the form of problem solving, retrieval of previously learned information, or other analytic activity in order to assure that (2) variations in task performance can be exclusively attributed to the extent to which the experimental factors influence visual depth perception. Subjects' performance will be assessed in terms of the speed and accuracy of task performance, as well as underlying dimensions of performance such as workload, fatigue, and physiological a ell being (i.e., cybersickness). The results of this experiment will provide important information on the effect of VE immersion and other VE design issues on human perception and performance. Further development, refinement, and validation of this behaviorally-based methodology will be pursued to provide user-centered design criteria for the design and use of VE systems.

Visual environmental simulations are fundamental in understanding the relationship between the built environment and psychological perception. The remarkable evolution of virtual immersion displays over recent years has provided a series of advantages to the architectural discipline, one of which is that non-specialists now have the potential to better understand architectural spaces. This work aimed to analyse the adequacy of the main displays and formats currently used in environmental simulations. As the objective was twofold, two experimental studies were carried out (with a sample of 100 participants). The studies evaluated users' responses to different environmental representations of two environments, using differential semantic scales to measure key underlying factors (utility, credibility, realism, accuracy, abstraction). The first study examined simulation displays: a PC, an HTC Vive Pro 2 head-mounted display, a PowerWall Screen and a CAVE. In the second, formats were analysed: normal image, 360 degrees image, video and 360 degrees video. The results of this work revealed that users perceived the space differently depending on the representation displays and formats used. Such comparisons of these new means of representing architectural spaces can be helpful to researchers, architects and urban planning professionals and might provoke debate in, and be extrapolated into, the design field. Z8 0

Inserting a needle to perform a biopsy requires a high haptic sensitivity. The traditional learning methods based on observation and training on real patients are questionable. In this paper, we present a preliminary evaluation of a VR trainer for needle insertion tasks. The system aims to replicate an existing physical setup while overcoming some of its limitations. Results permit to validate some design choices and suggest some UI improvements.

Although Virtual Reality (VR) has undoubtedly improved human interaction with 3D data, users still face difficulties retaining important details of complex digital objects in preparation for physical tasks. To address this issue, we evaluated the potential of visuohaptic integration to improve the memorability of virtual objects in immersive visualizations. In a user study (N=20), participants performed a delayed match-to-sample task where they memorized stimuli of visual, haptic, or visuohaptic encoding conditions. We assessed performance differences between these encoding modalities through error rates and response times. We found that visuohaptic encoding significantly improved memorization accuracy compared to unimodal visual and haptic conditions. Our analysis indicates that integrating haptics into immersive visualizations enhances the memorability of digital objects. We discuss its implications for the optimal encoding design in VR applications that assist professionals who need to memorize and recall virtual objects in their daily work.

In many fields of medicine interactive virtual environments can offer enhanced visualization and manipulation of three-dimensional objects, reconstructed from high-quality scans of human organs. Stereoscopic systems provide users with a natural depth perception about the spatial nature of the structures of interest; moreover advanced user-friendly interfaces, by allowing a natural and intuitive interaction, can strengthen the feeling of being immersed, so to offer clinicians the possibility to act how they do in the real life. In order to enhance the sense of realism specially, in medical computer-assisted education, training and diagnostic fields, it is necessary to have a system in which every action can be executed directly into the 3D world without switching to a 2D visualization mode. In this paper we present new interaction techniques to select and extract a volume-of-interest (VOI) in a semi-immersive interactive environment, by using a user-friendly wireless interface, suitable to implement pointing and manipulation features with 6 DOF.

Understanding stress distributions over 3D models is a highly desired feature in many scientific and engineering fields. The stress is mathematically a second-order tensor, and it is typically visualized using either color maps, tensor glyphs, or streamlines. However, neither of these methods is physically intuitive to the end user, and they become even more awkward when dealing with the volumetric tensor field over a complicated 3D shape. In this paper, we present a virtual perception system, which leverages a multi-finger haptic interface to help users intuitively perceive 3D stress fields. Our system allows the user to navigate the interior of the 3D model freely and maps the stress tensor to the haptic rendering along the direction of the finger's trajectory. Doing so provides user a natural and straightforward understanding of the stress distribution without interacting with the parameters in the mapped visual representations. Experimental results show that our system is preferred in navigating stress fields inside an object and is applicable for different design tasks. Z8 0

Virtual Reality (VR) software has developed to the point where, for the architect who is averagely technically adept, it can be incorporated into the design process with reasonable effort and costs. For VR to be an effective design tool, it must add value to the design process and should give insights and opportunities not available by other methods. Previous research by the authors reported on the results of an international student workshop which focused both on the workflow (to prepare the architectural models for the new VR systems) and the spatial perception that users experienced. In this paper, we continue to explore the question: "Can low cost VR be an effective addition to the architects' design toolbox, or does it still remain a "far-fetched, high-tech expensive folly?" To do this we are working with a larger group of students, a more developed workflow and we are also expanding this to architects in practice. We will be assessing both the practicality of integrating VR into the design workflow and the spatial perception of the designer when interacting with the model. We are experimenting with additional interface tools.

Media research has conceptualised realism of media and technology in many different ways e.g., visual fidelity, presence, narrative consistency. We build on a dual process model of subjective realism, categorising evaluative realism (comparison of stimulus to real life) and felt realism (illusion of felt non-mediation). This study explored subjective realism using a 2 x 2 design (N = 103) with two between-groups variables [perceptual cue (presence of interactive eye-gaze from virtual character) and conceptual cue (presence of narrative frame)]. Findings indicated how perceptual and conceptual cues interact; users reported that eye-gaze was evaluatively unrealistic, but eye-gaze accompanied by narrative framing resulted in higher self-reported felt realism. Perceptual cues alone may not increase felt realism without sufficient narrative explanation to contextualise the experience. Findings are integrated with theory and implications for a model of subjective realism are discussed. Z8 0

Abstract Research in the lighting field usually has focused on the quantitative and physical aspects of light and its performance for the user-environment relationship. Despite the growing research on subjective aspects of lighting and its influence on the perception of the built environment, experiments evaluating the impressions of nocturnal environments are still few. This article consisted in the mapping of projected environmental qualities of urban spaces in the city of João Pessoa-PB based on the concept of perceived atmosphere, which proposes words that qualitatively describe an environment. The experiment employed virtual reality to support the creation of virtual night scenes, simulating lighting projects, such as the existing night situation as the first scene and a new lighting intervention as a second alternative, in order to generate comparative evaluations. The results showed that there are different qualities in both spaces, mainly related to safety and sociability issues, reflecting the importance of adequate assessments of urban perceptions as well as virtual reality as an innovative tool. The contributions of this article include the possibility of replication of the methodology in new contexts where public lighting plays a key role, such as public spaces in housing developments and collective participation in the design process. Y4 Resumo Pesquisas no âmbito da iluminação focam no aspecto quantitativo e físico dos efeitos lumínicos e seu desempenho na relação usuário-ambiente. Assim, estudos sobre os aspectos subjetivos da iluminação e sua influência na percepção e no usufruto do espaço são crescentes, porém existem poucos experimentos para avaliar impressões subjetivas dos ambientes noturnos. O presente artigo tem por objetivo mapear qualidades ambientais do espaço urbano localizado na cidade de João Pessoa-PB por meio do conceito de atmosfera percebida, cuja categorização de palavras descreve qualitativamente o ambiente, utilizando o ambiente virtual tridimensional como suporte para criação e avaliação de cenários noturnos. Nesse sentido, foram simulados, em realidade virtual, dois projetos de iluminação: uma paisagem noturna existente e uma proposta de intervenção como alternativa, a fim de gerar avaliações pelos usuários. Os resultados mostram que existem qualidades subjetivas diferentes nos espaços, relacionadas com questões de segurança e sociabilidade do ambiente, o que reflete a importância dessas avaliações subjetivas, e demonstram o contributo da realidade virtual como aspecto inovador nesse processo. Contribuições do artigo dizem respeito à participação coletiva no processo de projeto e aplicação da metodologia em contextos em que a iluminação é fundamental, como espaços públicos de conjuntos habitacionais.

This paper presents a survey of the main results obtained in the field of "pseudohaptic feedback": a technique meant to simulate haptic sensations in virtual environments using visual feedback and properties of human visuo-haptic perception. Pseudo-haptic feedback uses vision to distort haptic perception and verges on haptic illusions. Pseudo-haptic feedback has been used to simulate various haptic properties such as the stiffness of a virtual spring, the texture of an image, or the mass of a virtual object. This paper describes the several experiments in which these haptic properties were simulated. It assesses the definition and the properties of pseudo-haptic feedback. It also describes several virtual reality applications in which pseudo-haptic feedback has been successfully implemented, such as a virtual environment for vocational training of milling machine operations, or a medical simulator for training in regional anesthesia procedures.

The visual analysis of networks is crucial for domain experts to understand their structure, investigate attributes, and formulate new hypotheses. Effective visual exploration relies heavily on interaction, particularly the selection of individual nodes. While node selection in 2D environments is relatively straightforward, immersive 3D environments like Virtual Reality (VR) introduce additional challenges such as clutter, occlusion, and depth perception, complicating node selection. State-of-the-art VR network analysis systems predominantly utilize a ray-based selection method controlled via VR controllers. Although effective for small and sparse graphs, this method struggles with larger and denser network visualizations. To address this limitation and enhance node selection in cluttered immersive environments, we present and compare six distinct node selection techniques through a user study involving 18 participants. Our findings reveal significant differences in the efficiency, physical effort, and user preference of these techniques, particularly in relation to graph complexity. Notably, the filter plane metaphor emerged as the superior method for selecting nodes in dense graphs. These insights advance the field of effective network exploration in immersive environments, and our validations provide a foundation for future research on general object manipulation in virtual 3D spaces. Our work informs the design of more efficient and user-friendly VR tools, ultimately enhancing the usability and effectiveness of immersive network analysis systems.

PurposeThis study aims to investigate the impact of customer perceptions of Augmented Reality (AR) attributes such as augmentation, interactivity and vividness on attitudes towards AR mobile apps, virtual product and behavioural intentions. Also, the mediation role of customer engagement in the effect of perceptions of AR attributes on attitudes and behavioural intentions is examined using the Theory of Interactive Media Effects.Design/methodology/approachThe study used a cross-sectional design. A total of 456 valid data were collected from the Millennials and Generation Z cohorts using purposive sampling. The conceptual framework was assessed using Partial Least Squares-Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) and Partial Least Squares-Multi Group Analysis (PLS-MGA).FindingsThe research revealed that customer perceptions of AR features such as augmentation, interactivity and vividness significantly influenced customer engagement, leading to favourable attitudes towards both the AR mobile app and the Virtual product as well as behavioural intentions. Furthermore, the study substantiates the role of customer engagement as a mediator in the relationship between customer perceptions of AR attributes and both attitudinal and behavioural outcomes.Originality/valueTo the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first attempt to investigate the significance of perceived augmentation as an antecedent to customer engagement and the mediating role of customer engagement on the influence of perceptions of AR attributes on attitudinal and behavioural intention.

The benefits and limitations of immersive technologies in military decision-making are not well understood. Here, we describe the framework of an experiment which seeks to empirically determine the effects of immersive and non-immersive technology on decision-making. In this experiment, users are shown tactical spatial information about a building layout and told they must decide which of three pre-determined breach points is optimal for maximizing mission success and minimizing risk to the ground team. To ensure observable effects are related to immersion and not simply perception of depth, we deploy a between-subjects design with three viewing conditions: data shown in 2D on a desktop display, data shown in 3D on desktop display, and data shown in 3D in a head-mounted display (HMD). Dependent variables include decision accuracy, time to task completion, decision confidence, and score on the System Usability Scale. In the VR version of the experiment, full telemetry is captured to track when and for how long users interacted with specific information in the scenario environment. Pilot results suggest that tracking these metrics will allow for intricate comparison of decision-making behaviors between display types.

This article describes the first steps in the development of a low-cost digital sensory glove that designed for use in virtual reality systems especially. Existing concepts of gloves differ in features and design, they have various functions, including feedback, tactile feedback to the electric discharge, a feeling of finger bending, finger grip strength and prediction of action and three-dimensional spatial positioning to improve sensation and practical experience in virtual reality. Manual dynamic perception and freedom of action, common in the real world, provide instant information about objects in the virtual world. Digital gloves act not only as a remote control in VR, but also provide physical feedback for the user when they come in contact with virtual objects. This article presented an own design for inexpensive gloves that allow for proximal and distal finger joint movements, as well as position/orientation determination with an inertial measuring unit. These sensors and tactile feedback caused by the vibration patterns of the coins at the fingertips are integrated into a wireless, easy-to-use and open-source system. The design of hardware, as well as experiment plans for proof of concept, is presented.

The metaverse has caught the imagination and investments of many. However, in developing countries, the metaverse may raise more questions, than answers. As such, this study aims to investigate first, student-designers' perceptions towards what and how they want the metaverse to be like, and whether students would prioritize information flow; second, the efficacy of triangulating 3 usability-HCI questionnaires; third, whether student-designers would be more interested, creative, and be more confident in designing and developing for interconnecting (non) metaverse (eco)systems. Findings from alpha-beta user testings of Figma prototypes indicate preference for balance between structure and freedom/creativity, enhanced by user feedback and open ecosystems. Mind maps, sequencing of chain of effects in descending order, and the derived hierarchical relationship reflect centralities in design, and continuums in notions of what sustainable interconnected systems in the metaverse may be like. They are influenced by how perspectives, objectives, utility functions, and evaluation criteria, dynamically affect shifts in these centrality of design (dy/dx) over time (dy/dt), based on demographics. Loosely coupled pointer-based systems, are thus viable complements to integration.

The widespread use of avatars in training & simulation has expanded from entertainers to filling more serious roles. This change has emerged from the need to develop cost-effective & customizable avatars for interaction with trainees. While the use of avatars continues to expand, issues surrounding the impact of individual trainee factors on training outcomes, & how the design implications for avatars presented may interact with these factors, is not fully understood. Also, the uncanny valley has yet to be resolved, which may impair users' perception & acceptance of avatars & associated training scenarios. Gender has emerged as an important consideration when designing avatars, both in terms of gender differences in trainee perceptions, & the impact of avatars gender on these perceptions & experiences. The startle response of participants is measured to determine the participants' affective response to how pleasant the avatar is perceived, to ensure positive training outcomes.

Virtual reality (VR) has become an important resource in light research and an ultimate tool for participatory approaches in sustainable urban planning. This article reviews the research design of VR light research focusing on the profile of participants. A search for peer-reviewed articles using a systematic literature review in Scopus (2000-2023) resulted in 56 articles that show that a quarter of the studies integrate the participants' characteristics into the results but the nature of the samples may put into doubt the external validity of the results. The article discusses the implications of these findings for research and practice.

The development and commercialization of smart glasses in recent years have made the exploration of one's surroundings with mobile augmented reality (MAR) browsers anytime and anywhere more practical. However, users often suffer from issues such as cognitive overload and inconvenient interactions when operating MAR browsers on smart glasses owing to the constraints of the screen resolution and size. To overcome these problems, this paper presents a user-behavior-driven augmented content display approach called iDisplay. First, user behaviors were modeled while the smart glasses were used. A user behavior perception algorithm that infers the current state of the user by crosschecking his/her past behavior and feature data extracted from the built-in sensors of the smart glasses was then developed. Five augmented content display patterns corresponding to the modeled user's behavior states were designed accordingly. To verify that iDisplay can be based upon the perceived user states to adaptively manage the smart glasses display, a prototype system was built to conduct a series of experiments. The experimental results show that iDisplay can accurately infer user states and manage augmented content display accordingly. A user study also shows that iDisplay can successfully reduce the user's cognitive load and split attention when searching for specific point-of-interest information while moving. Furthermore, all subjects claimed that iDisplay causes less dizziness during the experiments than the native overview + detail augmented reality interface. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

In virtual environments (VEs) presented on flat screens, accurate egocentric distance perception is crucial for enhancing immersion. This study investigated depth of field-induced blur, typically perceived as an ordinal depth cue, to understand its role as a quantitative depth cue in VEs. We employed verbal judgment and position adjustment methods to quantify observers' egocentric distance perception across various depth of field settings (n = 30 participants). Our analysis also examined the interplay between blur and other depth cues. Results indicated that increased blur in VEs leads to a greater underestimation of distances. Moreover, blur operates as a relatively independent depth cue, showing minimal interaction with other cues. These findings address a gap in research on the independent role of depth of field as a quantitative depth cue in VEs. This contributes to the visual design of VEs and supports the enhancement of user experience in human-computer interactions. Z8 0

Green environments are said to have a positive impact on spontaneous physical activity and well-being. However, high quality psychological measures in natural settings are difficult to collect. In the present study, we offer a detailed report on how virtual reality may provide a controlled environment for immersive user testing. Virtual Reality (VR) was here used to test the impact of colorful floor markings on the spontaneous speed of walking, gaze behaviour, as well as perceived changes in and physiological mesures of affective states. The reactions of 36 adult participants were evaluated in Grey and Green VR environments of an urban university campus. Results in VR revealed similar results than that reported in natural settings: participants walked slower and had higher heart rates in Green than in Grey urban settings, indicating more pleasurable experiences. VR results provided nevertheless more detailed description of user experience with the possibility to quantify changes in gaze strategy as a function of the presence or absence of color designs. Spontaneous walking was slower with colorful designs than without. Gaze behaviour presented longer fixation times with colorful designs than without. Finally, physiological responses indicated that mean heart rates were similar across environments and predicted the physical effort of the task. However, greater means in heart rates were observed in the environments presenting colorful designs, suggesting that colors may be a powerful tool to trigger alertness and pleasure in Grey urban cities. Virtual reality is reported here as an innovative method to quantify psychological experiences during free exploration in gait. Applicable to a broad range of research topics in the psychological sciences, explicit guidelines are made available to share computer code and data sets for further exploitation.

Electrotactile feedback is a convenient tactile rendering method thanks to reduced form factor and power consumption. Yet, its usage in immersive virtual reality has been scarcely addressed. This paper explores how electrotactile feedback could be used to enhance contact information for mid-air interactions in virtual reality. We propose an electrotactile rendering method which modulates the perceived intensity of the electrotactile stimuli according to the interpenetration distance between the user's finger and the virtual surface. In a first user study (N=21), we assessed the performance of our method against visual interpenetration feedback and no-feedback. Contact precision and accuracy were significantly improved when using interpenetration feedback. The results also showed that the calibration of the electrotactile stimuli was key, which motivated a second study exploring how the calibration procedure could be improved. In a second study (N=16), we compared two calibration techniques: a non-VR keyboard and a VR direct interaction method. While the two methods provided comparable usability and calibration accuracy, the VR method was significantly faster. These results pave the way for the usage of electrotactile feedback as an efficient alternative to visual feedback for enhancing contact information in virtual reality.

Haptic technology involves the use of electrical or mechanical means to stimulate afferent nerves or mechanoreceptors in the skin as the basis for creating sensations of physical touch that can qualitatively expand virtual or augmented reality experiences beyond those supported by visual and auditory cues alone. An emerging direction in this field involves the development of platforms that provide spatiotemporal patterns of sensation to the skin across not only the fingertips, but to any and all regions of the body, using thin, skin-like technologies that impose negligible physical burden on the user. This review highlights the biological basis for skin interfaces of this type and the latest advances in haptics in the context of this ambitious goal, including electrotactile and vibrotactile devices that support perceptions of touch in form factors that have potential as skin-integrated interfaces. The content includes a discussion of schemes for integrating these stimulators into programmable arrays, with an emphasis on scalable materials and designs that have the potential to support soft interfaces across large areas of the skin. A concluding section summarizes the potential consequences of successful research efforts in this area, along with key multidisciplinary challenges and associated research opportunities in materials science and engineering.

Nonverbal communication is paramount in daily life, as well as in populated virtual reality (VR) environments. In this paper, we focused on gaze behaviour, which is key to initiate and drive social interactions. Previous work on photographs and on virtual agents showed the importance of gaze, even in the presence of multiple stimuli, by demonstrating the stare-in-the-crowd effect: humans detect faster and observe gazes directed towards them longer than the averted ones. While previous studies focused on static scenarios, which fail in representing the complexity of real-life social interactions, we propose to explore the stare-in-the-crowd effect in dynamic situations. To this end, we designed a within-subject experiment where 21 users navigated a virtual street through an idle or moving crowd of virtual agents. Agents' gaze was manipulated to display averted, directed, or shifting gaze. We analysed the user's gaze (fixations, dwell time) and locomotor behaviours (path decisions, proximity to agents) as well as their social anxiety. Results showed that the stare-in-the-crowd effect is preserved when walking through both types of crowd, and that social anxiety decreases gaze interaction time and affects proximity behaviours in case of agents with directed gazes. However, virtual agents' gaze did not elicit significant changes on users' locomotion. These findings highlight the importance of considering virtual agents' gaze when creating VR environments, and open future work perspectives to better understand factors that would strengthen or decrease this effect at gaze and locomotor levels.

With app-based interaction increasingly permeating all aspects of daily living, it is essential to ensure that apps are designed to be inclusive and are usable by a wider audience such as the elderly, with various impairments (e.g., visual, audio and motor). We propose Empath-D, a system that fosters empathetic design, by allowing app designers, in-situ, to rapidly evaluate the usability of their apps, from the perspective of impaired users. To provide a truly authentic experience, Empath-D carefully orchestrates the interaction between a smartphone and a VR device, allowing the user to experience simulated impairments in a virtual world while interacting naturally with the app, using a real smartphone. By carefully orchestrating the VR-smartphone interaction, Empath-D tackles challenges such as preserving low-latency app interaction, accurate visualization of hand movement and low-overhead perturbation of I/O streams. Experimental results show that user interaction with Empath-D is comparable (both in accuracy and user perception) to real-world app usage, and that it can simulate impairment effects as effectively as a custom hardware simulator.

Visual behavior depends on both bottom-up mechanisms, where gaze is driven by the visual conspicuity of the stimuli, and top-down mechanisms, guiding attention towards relevant areas based on the task or goal of the viewer. While this is well-known, visual attention models often focus on bottom-up mechanisms. Existing works have analyzed the effect of high-level cognitive tasks like memory or visual search on visual behavior; however, they have often done so with different stimuli, methodology, metrics and participants, which makes drawing conclusions and comparisons between tasks particularly difficult. In this work we present a systematic study of how different cognitive tasks affect visual behavior in a novel within-subjects design scheme. Participants performed free exploration, memory and visual search tasks in three different scenes while their eye and head movements were being recorded. We found significant, consistent differences between tasks in the distributions of fixations, saccades and head movements. Our findings can provide insights for practitioners and content creators designing task-oriented immersive applications.

Over the past five years, the interest in Augmented Reality (AR) technologies has significantly increased. Different industries adopted it, such as gaming, tourism, e-commerce, and entertainment, to name a few. Due to its non-fully immersive property, easy implementation, and compatibility with the most recent smartphones, AR seems to be suitable for daily usage. This poses a significant challenge in creating a good User Experience (UX), as this kind of technology needs to be designed for private scenarios and public ones. In its context, it is essential to understand how users are influenced in their social interactions while using AR. Through the use of humanoid Virtual Characters, this paper is intended to better the understanding of how people perceive personal space in AR. By varying Virtual Character Gender (male, female) and its Placement Modality (predefined, dynamic distance) in the real environment, the effects on UX, Emotions, and Social Presence are investigated. As Personal Space is a dynamic psychological construct, which could depend on individual factors, this paper further investigates some possible co-variant effects of users' preferences towards a female or a male character based on their Sexual Attraction. Results show that Placement Modality significantly affects Personal Space boundaries in terms of position, width, and hedonic quality of the experience. Moreover, an effect of Virtual Character Gender was found on users' Personal Space inner boundary, and Social Presence in its emotional contagion dimension. Finally, an effect of Sexual Attraction on UX, Social Presence in its emotional contagion dimension, and dominance were discovered.

Purpose: To report the application of LUXIE and validate its reliability by comparing the test results with those of Humphrey Field Analyzer 3 (HFA3). Methods: In this pilot study, we prospectively recruited participants who had received HFA3 SITA standard 30-2 perimetry and tested them with LUXIE on the same day. LUXIE is a software designed for visual field testing cooperating with HTC Vive Pro Eye, a head-mounted virtual reality device with an eye-tracking system. The test stimuli were synchronized with eye movements captured by the eye-tracking system to eliminate fixation loss. The global, hemifields, quadrants, glaucoma hemifield test (GHT) sectors, and point-by-point retinal sensitivities were compared between LUXIE and HFA3. All participants were asked to fill out a post-test user survey. Results: Thirty-eight participants with 65 eyes were enrolled. LUXIE demonstrated good correlations with HFA3 in global (r = 0.81), superior hemifield (r = 0.77), superonasal, superotemporal, and inferonasal quadrants (r = 0.80, 0.78, 0.80). The user survey showed that participants were more satisfied with LUXIE in operating difficulty, comfortability, time perception, concentration, and overall satisfaction. Conclusions: LUXIE demonstrated good correlations with HFA3. Fixation loss could be eliminated in LUXIE with the eye-tracking system. The application of virtual reality devices such as the HTC Vive Pro Eye makes telemedicine and even home-based self-screening visual field tests possible. Key Messages: 1. Virtual reality perimetry is a developing technology that has the potential in telemedicine, and home self-screening visual field tests. 2. LUXIE demonstrated good correlations with Humphrey Field Analyzer 3 in visual field retinal sensitivities.

As shown in many large-scale and longitudinal studies, spatial ability is strongly associated with STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) learning and career success. At the same time, a growing volume of research connects cognitive science theories with tangible/embodied interactions (TEI) and virtual reality (VR) to offer novel means to support spatial cognition. But very few VR-TEI systems are specifically designed to support spatial ability, nor are they evaluated with respect to spatial ability. In this paper, we present the background, approach, and evaluation of TASC (Tangibles for Augmenting Spatial Cognition), a VR-TEI system built to support spatial perspective taking ability. We tested 3 conditions (tangible VR, keyboard/mouse, control; n=46). Analysis of the pre/post-test change in performance on a perspective taking test revealed that only the VR-TEI group showed statistically significant improvements. The results highlight the role of tangible VR design for enhancing spatial cognition.

Mild cognitive impairment is associated with many neurodegenerative diseases. It is essential to detect mild cognitive impairment on time to reduce the prevalence of such disorders. Nevertheless, present clinically employed test scales and biomarkers are time-consuming, user-unfriendly, and expensive. Hence, we developed a neuropsychological test system based on virtual reality in this study, the Virtual Reality Neuropsychological Mild Cognitive Impairment Test (VRNPT). The diagnosis and classification of MCI were achieved by effectively combining digital cognitive parameters and EEG signal features obtained during the VRNPT cognitive task. The VRNPT contains three head-mounted display-based cognitive tasks that assess participants' attention, memory, spatial perception, working memory, and visuospatial executive ability across multiple cognitive domains of functioning. We investigated how to design and optimize these tasks. We conducted a field study by recruiting 80 participants (40 MCI patients and 40 normal older adults). The results showed that the classification accuracy of combining digitized cognitive parameters and EEG signals during VRNPT was 91.3%, higher than using only digitized parameters from VRNPT and applying EEG signals alone, demonstrating the validity and feasibility of this method for diagnosing MCI. The user satisfaction survey showed that the subjects were satisfied with VRNPT.

Virtual reality (VR) has become an important interactive visualization tool for various industrial processes including facility inspection and maintenance. The capability of a VR application to present users with realistic simulations of complex systems and immerse them in, for example, inaccessible remote environments is often essential for using VR in real-world industrial domains. While many VR solutions have already been developed to support virtual facility inspection, previous systems provide immersive visualizations only with limited realism, because the real-world conditions of facilities are often difficult to reconstruct with accurate meshes and point clouds or typically too time-consuming to be consistently updated in computer-aided design (CAD) software toolkits. In this work, we present Magic NeRF Lens, a VR framework that supports immersive photorealistic visualizations of complex industrial facilities leveraging the recent advancement of neural radiance fields (NeRF). We introduce a data fusion technique to merge a NeRF model with the polygonal representation of it's corresponding CAD model, which optimizes VR NeRF rendering through magic-lens-style interactions while introducing a novel industrial visualization design that can support practical tasks such as facility maintenance planning and redesign. We systematically benchmarked the performance of our framework, investigated users' perceptions of the magic-lens-style visualization design through a visual search experiment to derive design insights, and performed an empirical evaluation of our system through expert reviews. To support further research and development of customized VR NeRF applications, the source code of the toolkit was made openly available. Z8 0

Latency in virtual reality (VR) can decrease the feeling of presence and body ownership. How users perceive latency, however, is malleable and affected by the design of the virtual content. Previous work found that an avatar's visual appearance, particularly its perceived fitness, can be leveraged to change user perception and behavior. Moreover, previous work investigating non-VR video games also demonstrated that controlling avatars that visually conform to users' expectations associated with the avatars' perceived characteristics increases the users' latency tolerance. However, it is currently unknown if the avatar's visual appearance can be used to modulate the users' latency sensitivity in full-body motion-tracked VR. Therefore, we conducted two studies to investigate if the avatars' appearance can be used to decrease the negative impact of latency. In the first study, 41 participants systematically determined two sets of avatars whose visual appearance is perceived to be more or less fit in two physically challenging tasks. In a second study (N = 16), we tested the two previously determined avatars (perceived to be more fit vs. perceived to be less fit) in the two tasks using VR with two levels of controlled latency (system vs. high). We found that embodying an avatar perceived as more fit significantly increases the participants' physical performance, body ownership, presence, and intrinsic motivation. While we show that latency negatively affects performance, our results also suggest that the avatar's visual appearance does not alter the effects of latency in VR.

Background: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is the leading cause of global disability; however, the existing treatments do not always address cognitive dysfunction-a core feature of MDD. Immersive virtual reality (VR) has emerged as a promising modality to enhance the real-world effectiveness of cognitive remediation. Objective: This study aimed to develop the first prototype VR cognitive remediation program for MDD ("bWell-D"). This study gathered qualitative data from end users early in the design process to enhance its efficacy and feasibility in clinical settings. Methods: Semistructured end-user interviews were conducted remotely (n=15 patients and n=12 clinicians), assessing the participants' perceptions and goals for a VR cognitive remediation program. Video samples of bWell-D were also shared to obtain feedback regarding the program. The interviews were transcribed, coded, and analyzed via thematic analysis. Results: End users showed an optimistic outlook toward VR as a treatment modality, and perceived it as a novel approach with the potential of having multiple applications. The participants expressed a need for an engaging VR treatment that included realistic and multisensorial settings and activities, as well as customizable features. Some skepticism regarding its effectiveness was also reported, especially when the real-world applications of the practiced skills were not made explicit, as well as some concerns regarding equipment accessibility. A home-based or hybrid (ie, home and clinic) treatment modality was preferred. Conclusions: Patients and clinicians considered bWell-D interesting, acceptable, and potentially feasible, and provided suggestions to enhance its real-world applicability. The inclusion of end-user feedback is encouraged when developing future VR programs for clinical purposes. Z8 0

A navigation system for individuals suffering from blindness or visual impairment provides information useful to reach a destination. Although there are different approaches, traditional designs are evolving into distributed systems with low-cost, front-end devices. These devices act as a medium between the user and the environment, encoding the information gathered on the surroundings according to theories on human perceptual and cognitive processes. Ultimately, they are rooted in sensorimotor coupling. The present work searches for temporal constraints due to such human-machine interfaces, which in turn constitute a key design factor for networked solutions. To that end, three tests were conveyed to a group of 25 participants under different delay conditions between motor actions and triggered stimuli. The results show a trade-off between spatial information acquisition and delay degradation, and a learning curve even under impaired sensorimotor coupling.

Over the past decades, augmented reality (AR) has seen vast improvements in graphic displays and mobile tracking capabilities. To our knowledge, handheld AR researcher in text legibility has mostly focused on algorithms for overlaying screen-aligned annotations; no one has yet employed a series of user-based studies to systematically investigate text legibility in handheld AR applications. In this preliminary work, we survey current approaches to text depictions in AR applications and the literature. We have found no single consistent form of displaying text, but see some basic trends emerging. This initial work lays the foundation for examining different text styles in various environments in order to create guidelines for effective text drawing approaches. By assessing current strategies for rendering text labels in handheld AR, we can catalog drawing styles for use in follow-on user-based studies.

Virtual reality holds significant potential for optimizing production processes, reducing costs, and contributing to the achievement of sustainable development goals outlined by the United Nations. As such, this study aims to understand the technological acceptance and use of virtual reality authoring tools. The study followed the Design Science Research paradigm, in which four virtual reality authoring tools, namely NVIDIA Omniverse Create, Spatial, SimLab Composer and SimLab VR Viewer, were filtered based on criteria established in literature, then participants experimented the non-immersive SimLab Composer and the immersive SimLab VR Viewer in Quest 2 headsets, with their perceptions on acceptance and use collected with the UTAUT2 model. Through the experiment, the immersive authoring tool were perceived as easy to acquire and develop skills with, competitively priced, and capable of providing a fun user experience. However, difficulty arise when establishing a correlation between real-world physical movements and the expected actions within the immersive environment. This discrepancy may have contributed to the participants below than positive assessment of the knowledge required to effectively utilize the tools. Nonetheless, they expressed their intention to use the VR authoring tools in the future, although without a commitment to regular usage. This study serves as a valuable indicator and provides a foundation for future investigations for evaluating authoring tools in virtual reality.

We have developed a novel experimental platform, referred to as a substitutional reality (SR) system, for studying the conviction of the perception of live reality and related metacognitive functions. The SR system was designed to manipulate people's reality by allowing them to experience live scenes (in which they were physically present) and recorded scenes (which were recorded and edited in advance) in an alternating manner without noticing a reality gap. All of the naive participants (n = 21) successfully believed that they had experienced live scenes when recorded scenes had been presented. Additional psychophysical experiments suggest the depth of visual objects does not affect the perceptual discriminability between scenes, and the scene switch during head movement enhance substitutional performance. The SR system, with its reality manipulation, is a novel and affordable method for studying metacognitive functions and psychiatric disorders. Z8 0

In the study of transformative experiences, the feeling of awe is found to alter an individual's perception in positive, lasting manners Our research aims to understand the potential for interactive virtual reality (VR) in eliciting awe, through a framework based on collection of physiological data alongside self-report and phenomenological observations that demonstrate awe. We conducted a mixed-methods experiment to test whether VR is effective in eliciting awe, and if this effect might be modulated by the type of natural interaction in the form of a "flight" lounger vs. "standing". Results demonstrate both interaction paradigms were equally awe-inspiring, with overall physiological (in the form of goose bumps with a 43.8% incidence rate) and self-report data (overall awe rating of 79.7%), and females showing more physiological signs of awe than males. Observations revealed 360-degree interaction and operability of hand-held controllers could be improved, with the consequence of designing even more effective transformative experiences.

The two point discrimination test is a Well known means of assessing tactile sensory acuity. In this paper, we describe a similar test wherein one point of stimulation is tactile and the other one is visual. We propose this test to measure how vision and taction combine to form a unified touch percept, in the presence of sensory conflict. We perform the test at the leg above the knee, using virtual reality to render the visual "touch" while the real touch occurs by means of a monofilament. The results are compared with those obtained from a traditional two point discrimination test performed at the same location. This information can be used to understand how to allocate tactors in a haptic feedback array as well as to better inform the design of future virtual reality accessories. Z8 0

This paper discusses the findings from a project to construct a simulation of Avebury henge, a Late Neolithic/Early Bronze Age monument in SW Britain, in a 3D, virtual world environment. The aims of the study were to explore the archaeological research and interpretation necessary to plan and construct such a simulation in an interactive, online environment, to identify which aspects of visualisation and sound-scape design appear to have the greatest impact upon users' sense of place in the virtual simulation and to explore the experiences of a small group of users in the virtual simulation and the effects of those experiences upon their sense of place at the physical site. The findings from this project demonstrated that in undertaking a simulation of an ancient site, a core set of sources need to be selected to create the main parts of the simulation. There is often much debate in archaeological literature regarding the way in which archaeological findings are interpreted, and a different virtual Avebury would be constructed if different interpretations had been chosen. Any simulation of an ancient site should therefore clearly recognise and state the basis upon which it has been designed. The evaluation showed that responses to virtual environments, and the resulting effect upon responses to physical environments, are complex and personal, resulting in a range of experiences and perceptions, suggesting that the range of users' experiences might be a more significant issue than attempting to find any general consensus on user reactions to simulated ancient sites.

The increasing density of urban spaces and buildings is undermining public health. To compensate, there is a growing trend towards biophilic design, including at one of the most frequented and highly functional sites: railway stations. Previous studies have confirmed the economic feasibility of station greenery and users' preference for this but also their reluctance to pay for greenery compared to other services. One research gap is the lack of consideration given to the full range and dose-response correlation of urban cultural ecosystem services provided by station greenery. To fill this gap, we present the development and implementation of a method using static 2D representations of virtual reality scenes generated from a digital twin. In a between-subjects experiment (N = 352), participants were randomly assigned to assess one of three levels of greenery by means of a six-item semantic differential. Supported by statistically significant differences between groups, we could identify improvements in well-being, aesthetics, stress reduction, perception of safety, psychological noise reduction and identity. Further, women were found to prefer higher levels of greenery than men. Based on our results, we recommend applying the method to evaluate planning options and that (more) greenery be introduced at metropolitan stations as part of biophilic design.

Mobile virtual reality (VR) headsets (e.g., Google Cardboard and Samsung Gear VR) seek to offer "anytime, anywhere" panorama, immerse 3D experiences for users. In this work, we study the viability of supporting mobile VR over operational 4G LTE networks, where the device provides pose information to the edge servers to offload graphical processing. We find that, contrary to common perceptions, wireless bandwidth is not the latency bottleneck for medium-quality VR. Instead, the signaling operations, which facilitate wireless data delivery, constitute a bulk portion of the latency. We report findings that challenge five common beliefs on VR network latency in LTE under both static and mobile scenarios, and quantify their impact. We design LTE-VR, a client-side solution to medium-quality VR over LTE. LTE-VR leverages cross-layer design and rich side channel information to reduce various latency sources in the signaling operations. Our prototype evaluation has confirmed its viability in 4G LTE. We discuss its applicability to the upcoming 5G. Z8 3

The virtual reality (VR) industry has tried to enhance VR immersion, a perception of being physically present in a non-physical environment. Sound, simulators, and surrounding environments can be synergistically augmented together to enhance immersion in VR. In this paper, we first integrate an immersive virtual platform that builds on a moving vehicle simulator in an immersive virtual environment. The simulator is integrated to have efficient localization with inexpensive sensors and to produce the loosely synchronous motion according to dynamically changing VR simulations and contents. The virtual environment called an immersive room is designed to provide 360-degree videos experience and deliver VR contents without a head-mounted display (HMD). In addition, we investigate the quality of experience (QoE) via a comparative survey study between the proposed immersive virtual platform and the conventional VR using an HMD in terms of immersion and motion sickness. Through the human-subject study with the newly designed questionnaire, we confirm that the general QoE is improved in terms of immersion and motion sickness by using the proposed immersive virtual platform. To verify which factors in the loosely synchronous motion are effective in improving QoE, the components of the motion control are ablated to show their individual effects. We provide the statistical analysis to support our hypotheses that for the proposed VR platform, participants with the loosely synchronous motion are more immersed and less likely to feel motion sickness than those without the synchronous motion in both the immersive room and VR with HMD. Z8 0

PURPOSE: To investigate the feasibility of using a virtual rehabilitation system with intuitive user interface and force feedback to improve the skills in activities of daily living (ADL). METHOD: A virtual training system equipped with haptic devices was developed for the rehabilitation of three ADL tasks - door unlocking, water pouring and meat cutting. Twenty subjects with upper limb disabilities, supervised by two occupational therapists, received a four-session training using the system. The task completion time and the amount of water poured into a virtual glass were recorded. The performance of the three tasks in reality was assessed before and after the virtual training. Feedback of the participants was collected with questionnaires after the study. RESULTS: The completion time of the virtual tasks decreased during the training (p<0.01) while the percentage of water successfully poured increased (p=0.051). The score of the Borg scale of perceived exertion was 1.05 (SD=1.85; 95% CI= 0.18-1.92) and that of the task specific feedback questionnaire was 31 (SD= 4.85; 95% CI= 28.66-33.34). The feedback of the therapists suggested a positive rehabilitation effect. The participants had positive perception towards the system. CONCLUSIONS: The system can potentially be used as a tool to complement conventional rehabilitation approaches of ADL. Implications for rehabilitation Rehabilitation of activities of daily living can be facilitated using computer-assisted approaches. The existing approaches focus on cognitive training rather than the manual skills. A virtual training system with intuitive user interface and force feedback was designed to improve the learning of the manual skills. The study shows that system could be used as a training tool to complement conventional rehabilitation approaches.

The metaverse connects the physical and digital worlds to improve the consumer experience, but little is known about how consumers respond to branded virtual worlds in real life. This study proposes a model to investigate the influence of metaverse experiential value on consumer's brand perception and behavioral responses in the virtual and real world. The covariance-based SEM analysis was conducted based on data from 702 Thai users of Asia's largest metaverse platform. Results revealed that all three dimensions of value indirectly affect consumer-brand engagement (CBE) through brand image and virtual purchase intention. Hedonic value had no direct effect on consumer responses, but on symbolic and utilitarian value which in turn influences CBE and virtual purchase respectively. As one of the first empirical studies on metaverse brand experience, this study contributed by incorporating multidimensional and interrelated experiential value and examining the mediating role of brand image and virtual purchase. The findings suggest brand design the branded virtual environment to facilitate consumer learning and virtual ownership, and align virtual merchandise and store ambiance with the real world to unify the brand image in both worlds.

The use of augmented reality (AR) has become an opportunity to enhance teaching approach. AR is an amalgamation of multimedia information with 3D graphics, images, animations and sound to support the user's perception. The aim of this study is to design and evaluate classroom learning through AR technique for teaching science subject to secondary school students. The proposed study integrated AR learning application in an interactive learning environment. A quasi-experimental design of the pre-test and post-test for non-randomized control group was employed for this project and the participants consisted of students of secondary schools in Thailand. The results indicates that students were satisfied at the highest level by the learning activities and acquired the target knowledge as well.

This paper presents the quantitative and qualitative findings from an experiment designed to evaluate a developing model of affective postures for full-body virtual characters in immersive virtual environments ( IVEs). Forty-nine participants were each requested to explore a virtual environment by asking two virtual characters for instructions. The participants used a CAVE-like system to explore the environment. Participant responses and their impression of the virtual characters were evaluated through a wide variety of both quantitative and qualitative methods. Combining a controlled experimental approach with various data-collection methods provided a number of advantages such as providing a reason to the quantitative results. The quantitative results indicate that posture plays an important role in the communication of affect by virtual characters. The qualitative findings indicated that participants attribute a variety of psychological states to the behavioral cues displayed by virtual characters. In addition, participants tended to interpret the social context portrayed by the virtual characters in a holistic manner. This suggests that one aspect of the virtual scene colors the perception of the whole social context portrayed by the virtual characters. We conclude by discussing the importance of designing holistically congruent virtual characters especially in immersive settings.

Mid-air images, which are augmented reality (AR) technologies, enable computer graphics (CG) images to be superimposed on a physical space. The mid-air image can be placed side-by-side with real objects, allowing various interactions, such as directly manipulating them to contact the mid-air image on the same plane. In this case, the measurement of the shape of real objects is necessary to realize geometric consistency between the mid-air image and real objects. However, in mid-air image optics, real objects cannot be placed behind the mid-air image (i.e., at a position where they interrupt the light rays that form the mid-air image). This limits the placement of the sensor and may prevent accurate measurement of the shape of the real objects. Consequently, we proposed an optical system for interaction with mid-air images that virtually measures the shape of real objects from behind the mid-air image. In our system, a virtual infrared (IR) sensor is formed behind the mid-air image using a hot mirror that reflects only IR light. The optical system considers the visible area of the mid-air image and the measurable area of the sensor. We evaluated the sharpness, luminance, and chromaticity to assess whether the hot mirror had changed the appearance of the mid-air image. The results confirmed that there was little impact on user perception. Furthermore, we developed four supporting applications for our system to show its efficacy.

Target selection in virtual reality (VR) is usually carried out with the need of visual attention. While target selection in VR has been extensively investigated in non-walking activities (e.g., sitting or standing), there have been few studies about eyes-engaged target selection during walking in virtual environments. Therefore, we conducted a comprehensive study to explore the effects of physical walking (as an independent variable with low, medium and high speeds) on eyes-engaged selection tasks with targets (three target sizes and three target depths) in two experiments: targets fixed in the virtual environment (Experiment One) and targets fixed to the virtual body (Experiment Two), respectively. Results showed that for Experiment One, the low walking speed led to the significantly longest task completion time, while the medium and high speeds had similar task completion time. For Experiment Two, higher walking speed led to longer task completion time. In both tasks, error rate significantly increased as walking speed increased. The effects of walking speed also varied across target size and target depth. We conclude our study with a set of design implications for target selection tasks when walking in VR environments.

PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to assess the effects of presence on users' information processing in mediated visualizations using immersive virtual reality (VR) and websites, focusing on information understanding and cognitive load. The impact of user interfaces on users' perception of presence is also tested.Design/methodology/approachA between-subjects laboratory experiment using two user interfaces - immersive VR and website - is carried out. It is complemented by a self-administered survey on the participants.FindingsThe current results indicate that an immersive VR interface improves tourists' information processing by producing a heightened sense of presence. The results confirm that presence facilitates tourists' information processing by increasing information understanding and decreasing cognitive load. Finally, a negative relationship between cognitive load and information understanding is obtained.Practical implicationsVR user interfaces are not only visually appealing but also cognitively optimized. Immersive VR devices can be introduced in the specific sale process of cruise trips through both offline channels (physical stores and travel agencies) and online channels to facilitate tourists' information processing during the prepurchase phase.Originality/valueThe primary contribution lies in the integration of the theory of presence with two influential information processing frameworks, namely, cognitive load theory and cognitive fit theory. This integration provides a holistic perspective on how user interfaces influence consumer information processing in the unique context of cruise tourism, particularly during the stage of a prepurchase information search.

Sound delivery is a key aspect of immersivity in virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), with studies hinting at a correlation between users' ability to locate sounds around them and the 'feeling of being there'. This is particularly true for WebVR, a method of delivering immersive experiences through a local web browser that has recently captured attention in multiple industries. In WebVR, audio is the main spatial cue. Designers need to select the correct number of sound sources so that users perceive the location of incoming sound correctly. Information on how users localize sound is essential. Sound localization experiments, so far, have been run only in empty spaces or closed rooms, without clear indications for designers in WebVR. Thus, in this study, we investigate sound localization directly through WebVR. To do so, we designed a traditional empty room for training and a city-like virtual environment for testing purposes. In our paper, we also discuss key design parameters, differences in perception for vertical and horizontal directions, the impact of training, and the role of changing virtual environments. In addition, we introduce and test a new sound cue along with the traditional pink noise sound to measure and explore the impact of different sound cues in different environments. The results demonstrate the potential of exploring sound localization using WebVR, and our study will support the development of virtual experiences in human-computer interaction that may be able to reach a large number of participants using a local web browser.

In the area of the design and physiotherapy, the using of virtual technologies for immersion of users are spreading. And this affirmation extends to several areas of knowledge. In games, the quote is, resources are being used to work cognitive skills, attention, memory, among other factors beside the children. Currently, at the expense of usability, low cost, virtual technologies of perception and interaction, as Nintendo Wii, X-Box 360, among others, arises therefore a new class of games called Exergames, which is the union of physical activity the game. This fact gives users the development of sensory and motor skills through virtual reality mechanisms suitable for certain needs. This literature review aimed to provide an overview of the current context of Exergames, especially in use for controlling childhood obesity, which is growing alarmingly, with some features, applications and possibilities for use at the design and other areas such as physiotherapy.

Vibration feedback is common in everyday devices, from virtual reality systems to smartphones. However, cognitive and physical activities may impede our ability to sense vibrations from devices. In this study, we develop and characterize a smartphone platform to investigate how a shape-memory task (cognitive activity) and walking (physical activity) impair human perception of smartphone vibrations. We measured how Apple's Core Haptics Framework parameters can be used for haptics research, namely how hapticIntensity modulates amplitudes of 230 Hz vibrations. A 23-person user study found that physical (p< 0.001) and cognitive (p=0.012) activity increase vibration perception thresholds. Cognitive activity also increases vibration response time (p< 0.001). This work also introduces a smartphone platform that can be used for out-of-lab vibration perception testing. Researchers can use our smartphone platform and results to design better haptic devices for diverse, unique populations. Z8 0

Throughout the 21st century, there has been a rise in interest of increasing inter-connectivity and smart automation in the realms of industrial production, often called the 4th Industrial Revolution. Thus, interest in areas such as virtual, mixed, and augmented reality has increased as new devices and technologies related to these areas are seen as a possible solution to increase Industrial efficiency, create safer work environments for employees, and more effective training. In this project, a HoloLens app was developed, capable of identifying and showing to the user various zones where a specific vehicle in a production line requires checking and in which users have full spatial perception. Each vehicle is composed of several zones and each of these zones is associated with specific stations in a sequential order, so the user will only be able to see the zones associated with the station that is being treated. Using a specific "gesture" users can change the zone's status in the database to indicate that the zone has been checked. These changes will be visible and the vehicle, stations, and zones will be updated to reflect the modifications. Various scripts in C# and PHP were used to allow modifications to the behaviour of the objects and database in the augmented reality scene through the access to a RESTful service in Unity.

Featured Application Methods of analyzing user behavior in virtual environments, such as spatial movement and interaction patterns in individuals or within groups, user interface usage. Abstract Human performance and navigation activity in virtual environments can be measured and assessed with the aim to draw specific conclusions about human cognition. This paper presents an original virtual geographic environment (VGE) designed and used for this purpose. The presented research is rooted in an interdisciplinary approach combining knowledge and principles from the fields of psychology, cartography, and information technologies. The VGE was embedded with user logging functionality to provide a basis from which conclusions about human cognitive processes in a VGE could be drawn. The scope of this solution is introduced, described, and discussed under a behavioral measurement framework. An exploratory research design was adopted to demonstrate the environment's utility in proof-of-concept user testing. Twenty participants were observed in interactive, semi-interactive and non-interactive tasks, their performance and individual differences were analyzed. The behavioral measurements were supplemented by Object-Spatial Imagery and a Verbal Questionnaire to determine the participants' cognitive styles. In this sample, significant differences in exploration strategies between men and women were detected. Differences between experienced and non-experienced users were also found in their ability to identify spatial relations in virtual scenes. Finally, areas for future research areas and development were pinpointed.

Virtual three-dimensional (3-D) environments have become pervasive tools in a number of professional and recreational tasks. However, interacting with these environments can be challenging for users, especially as these environments increase in complexity and scale. In this paper, we argue that the design of 3-D interaction techniques is an ill-defined problem. This claim is elucidated through the context of data-rich and geometrically complex multiscale virtual 3-D environments, where unexpected factors can encumber intellection and navigation. We develop an abstract model to guide our discussion, which illustrates the cyclic relationship of understanding and navigating; a relationship that supports the iterative refinement of a consistent mental representation of the virtual environment. Finally, we highlight strategies to support the design of interactions in multiscale virtual environments, and propose general categories of research focus.

A haptic device based on an electrorheological fluid has been designed and tested. The device is similar to a joystick which controls the motion of a cursor on a computer screen. In electric fields of different strength the shear stress of the electrorheological fluid is increased accordingly, which is perceived by the user by different resistance forces against the motion of the joystick. Controlled by the software the user can feel if the cursor enters a selected field on the screen. Such haptic devices can be useful in various possible applications like supporting tools for the operation of machines, assisting interfaces for blind persons working with a computer, virtual reality or computer games. The design of the haptic device, its components and the electrorheological fluid used are described.

With the rapid development of digital entertainment platforms and immersive virtual reality (VR) technology, the visualization of environmental landscape design has attracted widespread attention. This study aims to explore the visualization methods and effects of environmental landscape design based on digital entertainment platforms and immersive VR experiences. By capturing three-dimensional point information in the environment, high-precision environmental data can be obtained. Next, convert the point cloud data into a digital model with terrain features, and use voxel scene construction technology to further transform the terrain model into a voxelated digital model. In the design process of landscape design systems based on digital entertainment platforms and immersive VR experiences, various interaction methods have been implemented, such as gesture recognition, head tracking, and touch control, so that users can freely browse and operate virtual landscapes. By introducing landscape design principles and rules, users can modify and customize the landscape in a virtual environment. The research results indicate that the visualization method of environmental landscape design based on digital entertainment platforms and immersive VR experience can effectively display the characteristics and details of the environmental landscape, improve user perception and participation.

Mid-air haptic interfaces are promising tools for providing tactile feedback in Virtual Reality (VR) applications, as they do not require the user to be tethered to, hold, or wear any system or device. Currently, focused ultrasound phased arrays are the most mature solution for providing mid-air haptic feedback. They modulate the phase of an array of ultrasound emitters so as to generate focused points of oscillating high pressure, eliciting vibrotactile sensations when encountering a user's skin. While these arrays feature a reasonably large vertical workspace, they are not capable of displaying stimuli far beyond their horizontal limits, severely limiting their workspace in the lateral dimensions. In this paper, we propose an innovative low-cost solution for enlarging the workspace of focused ultrasound arrays. It features two degrees of freedom, rotating the array around the pan and tilt axes, thereby significantly increasing the usable workspace and enabling multi-directional feedback. Our hardware tests and human subject study in an ecological VR setting show a 14-fold increase in workspace volume, with focal point repositioning speeds over 0.85 m/s while delivering tactile feedback with positional accuracy below 18 mm. Finally, we propose a representative use case to exemplify the potential of our system for VR applications.

A virtual reality (VR) experiment with 96 participants was carried out to provide recommendations on the design of flashing lights at emergency exit portals for road tunnel emergency evacuation. The experiment was carried out in a Cave Automatic Virtual Environment laboratory. A set of variables was investigated, namely (1) colour of flashing lights, (2) flashing rate, (3) type of light source, (4) number and layout of the lights on the portal. Participants were immersed in a VR road tunnel emergency evacuation scenario and they were then asked to rank different portal designs using a questionnaire based on the Theory of Affordances. Results show that green or white flashing lights perform better than blue lights. A flashing rate of 1 and 4 Hz performed better than a flashing rate of 0.25 Hz. A light emitting diode light source performed better than single and double strobe lights. The three layouts of the lights under consideration performed similarly.

Haptic systems are increasingly being used in various applications such as virtual training, remote presence, and telesurgery. Human perception characteristics play a major role in the design of perceptual compression methods for haptic systems. However, the performance of these methods is jeopardized when packet loss occurs in the network. This study presents a packet loss resilient perceptual compression method, the modified prediction deadband method, as a novel enhancement on the linear prediction deadband method. The proposed method shows a significant improvement in user experience compared to other previously published methods, without a considerable loss in the compression ratio. Moreover, the method presents many advantages over other error-resilient compression methods, since it has a low footprint on the computational cost and on the memory consumption of the system. In addition, it does not require any previous knowledge or statistics regarding the state of the network. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Virtual reality (VR) technology has been used as a design research tool to enable a virtual experience of space as a real-life-scale mock-up. In terms of user experience design research, VR is highly scalable and adjustable, meaning that designed virtual prototypes and environments can be tested on a diverse population without restrictions. In spatial design, VR has been applied in various contexts, often focusing on behavioral intentions and psychological perceptions. Small living spaces are gaining more popularity as an affordable housing solution and an environmentally sustainable lifestyle. Despite their growing demand, user experiences of small living spaces have not been empirically tested. Specifically, the impact of users' different characteristics on the psychological responses to small living spaces has rarely been studied. In this study, we used three-dimensional (3D) virtual mock-ups to test how subjects of different genders and personality types perceived different shapes of a small space. A 2 x 2 factorial design was used to test two different wall length-width combinations (short vs. long floor plan shape) with two different ceiling heights (low vs. high). Forty-eight participants were randomly assigned to watch one of the four small living spaces. After watching the virtual walkthrough video, participants filled out the questionnaires on their perceptions. The results show that floor plan shape had a significant impact on place attachment. Participants reported greater place attachment to the space with a shorter floor plan than the longer one. In addition, higher ceiling height is closely related to functional and goal-oriented connections. The impact of the floor plan shape of the space on place attachment differed according to gender, age, and personality. Participants with higher extrovert scores reported greater functional connections to higher ceiling height. Men reported significantly more affective ties with longer floor plans than shorter ones. The older age group perceived longer floor plans to be more functional than the shorter ones.

The present paper introduces a very specific and pragmatic approach to segmentation. It is driven by a particular application context: in the framework of mixed-reality, Tranfiction ("transportation into fictional spaces") is designed to mix synthetic and natural images in real time while allowing users to interact in these input/output screens. Segmentation is therefore used to provide both the immersion and interaction capabilities. The former aspect is achieved by composing the image of the user within the projected virtual scenes, while the later is achieved thanks to basic body/gesture analysis on the segmented silhouettes. According to indoor or outdoor usages. two real-time techniques are developed. Results are analyzed with respect to the overall application, not only in terms of absolute quality but also in terms of perception by the users.

Aiming at the high data bandwidth problem in the virtual reality applications, this paper presents a data transmission method for the OLED-on-silicon microdisplay with the human eye visual perception characteristic. With the study on the human visual system, the foveation filtering algorithm of the texture pyramid is used to simulate the dynamic gaze effect of the human eye. The multi-resolution image fusions with the multi-level texture pyramids for the output image are realized. The hardware modules are designed using Verilog HDL language under the FPGA platform, including the video signal decoding and the 1 600 X 1 600 color OLED-on-silicon microdisplay driving. The experimental results show the multi-resolution image fusion compression algorithm based on the visual perception of human eye has a good data compression ratio. It can effectively decrease the transmission bandwidth for the OLED-on-silicon microdisplay. The proposed method meets the visual perception of the human eye. It has good rendering quality, which meets the real-time rendering requirements of the OLED-on-silicon microdisplay in the virtual reality embedded environment.

English as a foreign language (EFL) learners' task-based practices in 3D multi-user virtual environments are a dynamic avenue that has attracted research attention in current second language acquisition literature. This study explores EFL adult learners' perceptions and language practices in a 10-session, task-based course in Second Life (SL). A full-blown task based syllabus that capitalized on meaningful real-life tasks was designed and documented in this study. Employing the grounded theory approach and triangulating multiple qualitative data sources, two core themes emerged: factors that influence SL learning experience and effects of task-based instruction on language learning in SL. SL was evidenced as a viable learning environment due to its conspicuous features, immersive and virtual reality, sense of tele- and co-presence. This study implicates that 1) 3D multimodal resources in SL provide EFL learners with visual and linguistic support and facilitate language teaching and learning; and 2) tasks that draw upon SL features, accommodate learners' cultural/world knowledge, and simulate real-life scenarios, can optimize learners' virtual learning experiences. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

Animated virtual humans created by skilled artists play a remarkable role in today's public entertainment. However, ordinary users are still treated as audiences due to the lack of appropriate expertise, equipment, and computer skills. We developed a new method and a novel sketching interface, which enable anyone who can draw to "sketch-out" 3D virtual humans and animation. We devised a "Stick Figure -> fleshing-out -> Skin Mapping" graphical pipeline, which decomposes the complexity of figure drawing and considerably boosts the modelling and animation efficiency. We developed a gesture-based method for 3D pose reconstruction from 2D stick figure drawings. We investigated a "Creative Model-based Method", which performs a human perception process to transfer users' 2D freehand sketches into 3D human bodies of various body sizes, shapes and fat distributions. Our current system supports character animation in various forms including articulated figure animation, 3D mesh model animation, and 2D contour/NPR animation with personalised drawing styles. Moreover, this interface also supports sketch-based crowd animation and 2D storyboarding of 3D multiple character interactions. A preliminary user study was conducted to support the overall system design. Our system has been formally tested by various users on Tablet PC. After minimal training, even a beginner can create vivid virtual humans and animate them within minutes.

The inertia of manipulated objects contributes to natural human performance, but its effects on virtual reality (VR) interactions have rarely been investigated. Here, we designed a virtual goal-directed task, in which virtual objects with different masses were moved into a target hole. Based on synchronized kinematic and eye-tracking data, we examined the effects of inertia on participants' performance during the virtual task in a virtual environment. Our results indicated that hand movements presented greater spatial variability and more discontinuities when the inertial load was removed. It suggested a decline in the ability of motor control and feedback regulation, since the absence of an inertial load weakened the proprioception for sensing limb movements. Eye-movement evidence indicated that increased preferential allocations of visual attention contribute to compensating the weakened proprioceptive cues, supporting the kinematic results. These findings reveal the importance and mechanism of inertial effects on human behaviors in VR interactions.

Current technology enables schools to provide remote or virtual computing labs. Virtual computing labs can be implemented in multiple ways ranging from remote access to banks of dedicated workstations to sophisticated access to large-scale servers hosting virtualized workstations. This paper reports on the implementation of a specific lab using remote access to dedicated workstations and supporting students enrolled in degree programs in management. Such a lab can be implemented at relatively low cost by reallocating resources dedicated to existing physical labs. Our virtual computing lab was implemented as part of wider initiative to incorporate mobile computing throughout the curriculum. The lab was intended to improve student access to school computing resources and provide a reliable and standardized software and hardware environment for use in management courses. Virtual computing labs pose significant challenges in configuration, operation, and administration. All of these challenges can be adequately addressed with sufficient planning and management. We provide direct comparisons of physical and virtual computing labs in the areas of security, administration, and cost. We report generally positive student perceptions of the virtual computing lab as compared to the previous physical computing lab with respect to accessibility, usability, and value, though those perceptions vary depending on student background and technical skill. Non-technical students can be overwhelmed or disoriented when using a virtual requires devoting sufficient resources to training user interface design and on-going support for both student and faculty users.

This article discusses novel research methods used to examine how Augmented Reality (AR) can be utilized to present "omic" (i.e., genomes, microbiomes, pathogens, allergens) information to non-expert users. While existing research shows the potential of AR as a tool for personal health, methodological challenges pose a barrier to the ways in which AR research can be conducted. There is a growing need for new evaluation methods for AR systems, especially as remote testing becomes increasingly popular. In this article, we present two AR studies adapted for remote research environments in the context of personal health. The first study (n = 355) is a non-moderated remote study conducted using an AR web application to explore the effect of layering abstracted pathogens and mitigative behaviors on a user, on perceived risk perceptions, negative affect, and behavioral intentions. This study introduces methods that address participant precursor requirements, diversity of platforms for delivering the AR intervention, unsupervised setups, and verification of participation as instructed. The second study (n = 9) presents the design and moderated remote evaluation of a technology probe, a prototype of a novel AR tool that overlays simulated timely and actionable environmental omic data in participants' living environment, which helps users to contextualize and make sense of the data. Overall, the two studies contribute to the understanding of investigating AR as a tool for health behavior and interventions for remote, at-home, empirical studies.

Autonomous-vehicle (AV) technologies are rapidly advancing, but a great deal remains to be learned about their interaction and perception on public roads. Research in this area usually relies on AV trials using naturalistic driving which are expensive with various legal and ethical obstacles designed to keep the general public safe. The emerging concept of Wizard-of-Oz simulation is a promising solution to this problem wherein the driver of a standard vehicle is hidden from the passenger using a physical partition, providing the illusion of riding in an AV. Furthermore, headmounted display (HMD) virtual reality (VR) has been proposed as a means of providing a Wizardof-Oz protocol for on-road simulations of AVs. Such systems have potential to support a variety of study conditions at low cost, enabling simulation of a variety of vehicles, driving conditions, and circumstances. However, the feasibility of such systems has yet to be shown. This study makes use of a within-subjects factorial design for examining and evaluating a virtual reality autonomous vehicle (VRAV) system, with the aim of better understanding the differences between stationary and on-road simulations, both with and without HMD VR. More specifically, this study examines the effects on user experience of conditions including presence, arousal, simulator sickness and task workload. Participants indicated a realistic and immersive driving experience as part of subjective evaluation of the VRAV system, indicating the system is a promising tool for humanautomation interaction and future AV technology developments.

Psycho-pathological conditions, such as depression or schizophrenia, are often accompanied by a distorted perception of time. People suffering from this conditions often report that the passage of time slows down considerably and that they are "stuck in time." Virtual Reality (VR) could potentially help to diagnose and maybe treat such mental conditions. However, the conditions in which a VR simulation could correctly diagnose a time perception deviation are still unknown. In this paper, we present an experiment investigating the difference in time experience with and without a virtual body in VR, also known as avatar. The process of substituting a person's body with a virtual body is called avatar embodiment. Numerous studies demonstrated interesting perceptual, emotional, behavioral, and psychological effects caused by avatar embodiment. However, the relations between time perception and avatar embodiment are still unclear. Whether or not the presence or absence of an avatar is already influencing time perception is still open to question. Therefore, we conducted a between-subjects design with and without avatar embodiment as well as a real condition (avatar vs. no-avatar vs. real). A group of 105 healthy subjects had to wait for seven and a half minutes in a room without any distractors (e.g., no window, magazine, people, decoration) or time indicators (e.g., clocks, sunlight). The virtual environment replicates the real physical environment. Participants were unaware that they will be asked to estimate their waiting time duration as well as describing their experience of the passage of time at a later stage. Our main finding shows that the presence of an avatar is leading to a significantly faster perceived passage of time. It seems to be promising to integrate avatar embodiment in future VR time-based therapy applications as they potentially could modulate a user's perception of the passage of time. We also found no significant difference in time perception between the real and the VR conditions (avatar, no-avatar), but further research is needed to better understand this outcome.

Stereoscopic displays are an increasingly prevalent tool for experiencing virtual environments, and the inclusion of stereo has the potential to improve distance perception within the virtual environment. When multiple users simultaneously view the same stereoscopic display, only one user experiences the projectively correct view of the virtual environment, and all other users view the same stereoscopic images while standing at locations displaced from the center of projection (CoP). This study was designed to evaluate the perceptual distortions caused by displacement from the CoP when viewing virtual objects in the context of a virtual scene containing stereo depth cues. Judgments of angles were distorted after leftward and rightward displacement from the CoP. Judgments of object depth were distorted after forward and backward displacement from the CoP. However, perceptual distortions of angle and depth were smaller than predicted by a ray-intersection model based on stereo viewing geometry. Furthermore, perceptual distortions were asymmetric, leading to different patterns of distortion depending on the direction of displacement. This asymmetry also conflicts with the predictions of the ray-intersection model. The presence of monocular depth cues might account for departures from model predictions.

Haptic rendering enables people to touch, perceive, and manipulate virtual objects in a virtual environment. Using six cascaded identical hollow disk electromagnets and a small permanent magnet attached to an operator's finger, this paper proposes and develops an untethered haptic interface through magnetic field control. The concentric hole inside the six cascaded electromagnets provides the workspace, where the 3D position of the permanent magnet is tracked with a Microsoft Kinect sensor. The driving currents of six cascaded electromagnets are calculated in real-time for generating the desired magnetic force. Offline data from an FEA (finite element analysis) based simulation, determines the relationship between the magnetic force, the driving currents, and the position of the permanent magnet. A set of experiments including the virtual object recognition experiment, the virtual surface identification experiment, and the user perception evaluation experiment were conducted to demonstrate the proposed system, where Microsoft HoloLens holographic glasses are used for visual rendering. The proposed magnetic haptic display leads to an untethered and non-contact interface for natural haptic rendering applications, which overcomes the constraints of mechanical linkages in tool-based traditional haptic devices. Z8 1

Robot teleoperation, a control method allowing human operators to manipulate robotic systems remotely, has become increasingly popular in construction applications. A significant challenge is the disconnection between the robot sensor data and the human operator's sensory processes, creating a sensorimotor mismatch in motor-intensive activities. This disconnection is particularly challenging in motor-intensive activities that require accurate perception and response. Researchers have started investigating haptic interactions to enhance the control feedback loop, including simulating contacts, motions, and tactile input. However, although current methodologies have advanced the field, they often focused on certain aspects and could be further expanded to provide a more comprehensive simulation of the physical interaction that occurs in typical construction operations. This study designs and tests a comprehensive high-fidelity embodied teleoperation method that simulates complete real-world physical processes via the physics engine. The proposed method captures all categories of physical interaction in typical motor-intensive construction tasks, including weight, texture, inertia, impact, balance, rotation, and spring. A human-subject experiment shows that the proposed method substantially improves performance and human functions in a teleoperated pipe-fitting task. The results indicate that the proposed multisensory augmentation method significantly enhances performance and user experience, offering valuable insights for designing innovative robot teleoperation systems for future construction applications.

Educational CVEs seem to have special requirements for avatar representation and gestures that could support the learning and collaboration process. Based on the user evaluation results, we can conclude that when gestures were used, they enriched the participants' ways of communication and interaction within collaboration groups as well as their perception of virtual presence. Another important issue that was revealed and requires further research is to provide students and teachers with the appropriate help in order to design and conduct successful and effective collaborative learning scripts using 3D environments. We assume that external help in the form of an anthropomorphic SL artificial intelligent agent could provide the necessary support. This will be also the subject of our future work. Z8 0

This paper examines the perceptions of Greek Primary School teachers about the educational use of mobile augmented reality (MAR). The research of this study includes the design and development of an educational application which involves augmented reality and mobile learning. Additional information and digital features, following the school curriculum, were superimposed to the user's real world through the utilization of mobile devices. Primary school teachers were familiarized with the application and formed their opinions regarding mobile augmented reality in the teaching process after using it. Then, they filled out a questionnaire based on the technology acceptance model (TAM). The analysis of the data that were collected showed significant correlations between the variables. In particular, it was found that teachers' intention to use the mobile AR application that was designed is related both to perceived usefulness and to perceived ease of use. Teachers enjoyed the mobile augmented reality experience and considered the app as a useful and easy to use tool, which has a lot to offer to their teaching.

Competitive VR gaming has emerged as a new trend in recent years, due to the availability of consumer grade VR technologies and the rise of esports as a billion dollar industry. Despite the considerable attention to competitive VR gaming, there is a lack of research on attitudes and experiences that players have with these games. In this qualitative study with a pre-post interview design, we recruited eight competitive Counter-Strike: Global Offensive players from a university esports club. We aimed to understand their attitudes towards VR esports and their experiences playing a representative location based VR esports game. Findings showed that players had visceral and positive affective experiences in the game, such as how players map physical movements to the game. These findings can help design future competitive VR esports, while also further contributing to HCI as the first exploration on player experiences with VR esports, laying groundwork for future studies.

This article first introduces the development of embedded image processing system, puts forward the overall design of the system structure, constructs the development environment of software system and hardware, and introduces in detail the choice of embedded image processing system and artificial intelligence embedded operating system in the industry, the choice of objective lens, and the choice and installation of the light source in the system. According to the system requirements, the design, function, and working method of the GPIO peripheral circuit are introduced in detail, and the circuit diagram and PCB diagram of the GPIO peripheral expansion circuit are provided. Based on this, this article focuses on the technical realization of 3D landscape modeling technology, 3D landscape rotation technology, digital museum dynamic scene fusion technology, interactive animation perception over time, real visual virtual landscape, and virtual roaming scene perception in detail. The 3D landscape modeling technology and the modeling method of digital museum environment in virtual reality in this article are used to analyze and study the general concept of VR environment design in virtual reality environment and make it based on different characteristic methods of different modeling. The overall structure and theoretical basis of the VR environment in the digital museum are based on technical solutions, such as process modeling and scene structure. This technical solution has been verified in practical applications and is achievable. Regarding image recording, this paper proposes an improved image-based recording method. In terms of image coupling, this article uses an improved progressive input and output algorithm that can use CRML to create simple dynamic scenes, which can create clear and vivid animation effects, so that the viewer has a good experience.

The focus of this paper is on enhancing the possibilities of manufacturing operations by taking advantage of augmented reality (AR) technology and highlighting its benefits by implementing a product manufacturing case. The latter appearance of augmented headsets, such as the Microsoft HoloLens allows more opportunities for creating innovative solutions. After introducing concepts about smart manufacturing, improvements regarding human-robot collaboration in assembly tasks are presented. The developed scenario is based on the integration of AR, a cobot, a see-through device, a digital twin and an algorithm for assembly visualization. This approach pledges a compelling interaction of the 3D real and virtual unit, so that the operator can work in a more intuitive environment. This methodology has been implemented on a assembly case to investigate users' enhanced perception using the virtual world while cooperating with the robot.

Foley artistry is an essential part of the audio post-production process for film, television, games, and animation. By extension, it is as crucial in emergent media such as virtual, mixed, and augmented reality. Footsteps are a core activity that a Foley artist must undertake and convey information about the characters and environment presented on-screen. This study sought to identify if characteristics of age, gender, weight, health, and confidence could be conveyed, using sounds created by a professional Foley artist, in three different 3D humanoid models, following a single walk cycle. An experiment was conducted with human participants (n=100) and found that Foley manipulations could convey all the intended characteristics with varying degrees of contextual success. It was shown that the abstract models were capable of communicating characteristics of age, gender, and weight. The findings are relevant to researchers and practitioners in linear and interactive media and demonstrate mechanisms by which Foley can contribute useful information and concepts about on-screen characters.

Haptic terrain display in Virtual Environments is important for increasing realism and immersion. While several terrain display devices exist, the Smart Shoe aims to render subtle terrain features while still being able to accommodate gross features, like sloped terrain. The compactness and portability of this haptic wearable device allows it to not only display terrain features on flat treadmill surface, but also potentially be able to compensate terrain unevenness to maintain level ankle posture for rehabilitation purposes. A novel elastomer based bladder system is designed to provide elasticity and support of the Smart Shoe. A mechatronic top plate is made by molding electronics and miniature solenoid valves into rubber material, providing sensing and control of pressure and height of the shoe. Evaluations of the Smart Shoe indicate promises to improve the haptic perception of different terrain features in a virtual environment.

The emergence of Virtual Reality (VR) in recent years has incepted a new paradigm in education. In the past decade, VR has become a reliable tool in the design, development, and simulation of various scenarios in different industries. The use trend of VR along with other technological advances indicates an ascending growth, which entices more researchers and educators to explore its capabilities, strengths, and challenges and take advantage of opportunities created. VR encompasses a unique set of characteristics and features that are effectively aligned with educational purposes. VR applications provide rich content in a customizable pace and delivery method. VR graphical features intrigue users, especially the new generation of students. VR training applications also minimize the physical risks of real situation-based training tools and provide students with easy access to anytime-anywhere educational sources. Like many other advancements in the construction area, VR has been explored and utilized with a delay. However, the broad scope of construction in industry and education furnishes an appealing path for VR development. Despite this opportunity, the lack of a VR design standard or framework has led construction developers to move forward with trial and error in their design or development processes. This paper provides a background of VR in construction education followed by a framework for VR construction education applications. Also, a retrospective analysis of a design and development of a VR training application for construction safety, derived from a case study, provides lessons learned for further similar applications.

Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the influence of priming on people's risk perceptions and safety decisions in a virtual construction simulator. Design/methodology/approach Civil engineering students were recruited to interact with a virtual reality (VR) safety simulator. They were divided into four groups covering with and without sound and with and without priming factors. Data were collected on the risks that they perceived and the safety levels of their actions. Findings It was found that obvious stimuli in a virtual environment with sound help people to recognise more hazards near the location of the stimuli. Sound is helpful in training simulations to create high levels of presence. However, priming factors are not suitable to be added to VR simulators for training purposes. Priming of safe choice results in people taking fewer risks in the VR simulator, but this does not carry over into other situations. Compared to priming effects, being injured in a training simulator with sound improves trainees' ability to make safe decisions. Originality/value VR simulation is helpful in construction training because of its unique ability to give trainees exposure to dangerous situations without physical risk. However, the overloading the working memory of users is detrimental to the outcomes. Therefore, the optimum level of complexity in VR simulators should be further studied.

Immersive virtual reality (IVR) is considered as an effective and efficient instructional tool for architecture, engineering, construction, operation, and facility management (AECO/FM) education. However, it is essential to systematically evaluate them to obtain consolidated evidence on the impact of IVR applications. Thus, the aim of this article is to present the state-of-the-art on all AECO/FM use cases, including learning theories/models, all key factors, and experimental design, and to suggest future directions for IVR research. This review follows a systematic literature review methodology to analyze 79 papers between 2013 and 2022. The results show that learning theories/models are not sufficiently applied. There is consensus that IVR influences affective factors positively. It is necessary to consider task type, task complexity, virtual environment design, and ergonomics of IVR tools in terms of cognitive factors. Cognitive/affective factors associated with learning performance should be examined in depth to develop more effective learning methods. Future studies should design and conduct experimental procedures with more scientific rigor.

In the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry, virtual environments are being utilized to enhance communication among stakeholders and improve visual comprehension. However, stakeholders possess diverse personal characteristics which can affect their spatial recognition ability in virtual spaces. Despite the potential impact of these individual traits, related research still needs to be more comprehensive. Therefore, this study analyzed how each individual's characteristics influence spatial recognition in a Building Information Model (BIM)-based virtual environment. A quantitative methodology via a survey was employed to investigate the influence of personal factors such as age, gender, education level, and gaming experience on spatial recognition. In a 3D virtual corridor using BIM software, 76 participants were asked to navigate the corridor using a controller and count 23 sprinklers. Of the 76 participants, 30 responses were selected for the statistical analysis. The results demonstrate that age, gender, and education level did not significantly affect spatial recognition in the virtual environment. Conversely, participants with gaming experience tended to perceive spaces in the virtual environment more accurately and realistically, showing a statistically significant difference. This outcome suggests that gaming experience is crucial in enhancing spatial recognition ability in virtual environments. The findings from this study offer critical insights into the impact of individual characteristics on spatial recognition, providing valuable information for the future practical use of BIM-based virtual environments, and can subsequently assist in discovering efficient communication methods among stakeholders.

Modulation of the frictional force of a fingertip sliding over a surface-haptic device can produce compelling sensations of texture and relief. The virtual sensation is particularly apparent and feel as fixed in space if the stimulus is rigorously correlated with the displacement of the finger. While frictional textures tactually resemble their real counterparts, some exploratory conditions under which the sharpness of the texture declines exist. We postulate that this decline in sharpness is caused by the perceptual limitation of the attempt to interpret the variation in friction as an out-of-plane sinusoidal topography. To investigate these questions, we measured the detection thresholds of sinusoidal friction-modulated gratings for a wide range of spatial periods explored at two different speeds. We compared the results with the detection thresholds, reported in the literature, of real gratings and vibrotactile stimuli. We found that the detection of spatial friction-modulated textures does not follow the same trend as that of real textures but is more similar to the vibrotactile rendering, which is strongly influenced by the exploratory speed. This article provides a better understanding of the perception of friction-modulated textures and provides insight into how to design impactful stimuli on surface-haptic devices. Z8 0

This paper introduces application of the Cave Automatic Virtual Environment (CAVE) to forest visualization and user studies which were designed to gain insight into human factors for system development. This interdisciplinary research project was undertaken by the Visualization, Analysis, and Imaging Laboratory and the Department of Forestry at Mississippi State University (MSU). The purpose was to create a forest management tool for remote examination of stands in a stereoscopic environment which allows users to observe and interact with realistic virtual stands. The datasets used in this study include measurements such as total height, Diameter at the Breast Height (DBH), and crown radii. The datasets were directly and indirectly generated from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data. The datasets from immature (eight-years-old) high density and mature (40-years-old) low density loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) stands were used to generate three types of tree models. These three models represent trees in different graphic-complexities and thus interactivity. In general, higher fidelity is preferred in visualization. However, there is a trade-off between graphic details and interaction speed. To determine an optimal model, a user study was designed to examine the influence photo-reality and interactivity have on the viewer's perception. Human subjects recruited from MSU's Department of Forestry will explore virtual stands rendered with one of the tree models in the CAVE and estimate forest parameters.

There has been an increasing interest in applying immersive virtual reality (VR) applications to support various instructional design methods and outcomes not only in K-12 (Primary and Secondary), but also in higher education (HE) settings. However, there is a scarcity of studies to provide the potentials and challenges of VR-supported instructional design strategies and/or techniques that can influence teaching and learning. This systematic review presents a variety of studies that provide qualitative and/or quantitative data to investigate the current practices with VR support focusing on students' outcomes, performance, alongside with the benefits and challenges of this technology concerning the analysis of visual features and design elements with mobile and desktop computing devices in different learning subjects. During the selection and screening process, forty-six (n = 46) articles published from the middle of 2009 until the middle of 2020 were finally included for a detailed analysis and synthesis of which twenty-one and twenty-five in K-12 and HE, respectively. The majority of studies were focused on describing and evaluating the appropriateness or the effectiveness of the applied instructional design processes using various VR applications to disseminate their findings on user experience, usability issues, students' outcomes, and/or learning performance. This study contributes by reviewing how instructional design strategies and techniques can potentially benefit students' learning performance using a wide range of VR applications. It also proposes some recommendations to guide and lead effective instructional design settings in several teaching and learning contexts to outline a more accurate and up-to-date picture of the current state of literature.

The use of Virtual Reality (VR) and interactive real-time rendering in urban planning and building design are becoming more and more common. However, the integration of VR in the urban planning process suffers from the complicated interaction handling of the virtual environment. In particular, people unfamiliar to gaming environments and computers are less prone to interact with a VR visualisation using keyboard and mouse as controlling devices. This paper addresses this issue by presenting an implementation of the XBOX 360 Kinect sensor system, which uses the human body to interact with the virtual environment. This type of interaction interface enables a more natural and userfriendly way of interacting with the virtual environment. The validation of the system shows that respondents perceived the interface as non-demanding and easy to use. The implemented interface to switch between different architecture proposals gave a better understanding and spatial reasoning for the respondent. The study also shows that males perceived the system as more demanding than females. The users also associated and compared their body with virtual environment, which could indicate that they used their body during spatial reasoning. This type of spatial reasoning has been agued to enhance the spatial-perception.

The study explored whether cultural gender stereotypes are carried into the domain of conversational agents (CAs), and examined user reactions to feminine, masculine, and gender-ambiguous voices in the context of stressful and non-stressful interactions. The user's image of an ideal CA was also investigated. A fully virtual experiment guided participants through interactions with three differently voiced Amazon Alexa test apps, collected participants' demographics, ratings and comments about CAs performance, voice and personality manifestations on stressful, non-stressful and personality-revealing tasks. The masculine sounding agent was most frequently associated with extraverted, sensitive and open-minded personality, the gender-ambiguous agent was perceived as organized; and the feminine sounding agent as sympathetic. Most of the participants wanted their ideal CAs to have a highly warm and competent personality, and preferred this personality in both stressful and non-stressful contexts. Nearly half of the participants identified a preference for contextually dependent voice or stated a preference for an ideal agent with a gender-ambiguous voice, though this agent received the lowest scores during experimental interactions. The study contributes to the discussion of the cultural gender stereotypes in conversational technology and user preferences for agent's voices and personality.

Purpose The Furniture, Fixture and Equipment (FFE) sector is well placed to leverage virtual reality (VR) technology for competitive and operational advantages; however, the diffusion of VR applications in this sector has followed a steep curve. This study reports on the implementation of two novel VR applications in the FFE sector and also investigates the challenges and benefits associated with their use and adaptability. Design/methodology/approach A sequential exploratory mixed research methodology consisting of three phases was adopted for this study. This included identification of factors that affect/facilitate the implementation of VR (Challenges and Benefits) using experiments during in-house prototyping of VR applications, a rigorous literature review and questionnaire survey to solicit FFE Stakeholder's (n = 117) opinion on the utility and usefulness of the proposed applications and to the understand factors that facilitate and inhibit their implementation in FFE's context, particularly as a design communication and coordination tool. Findings The findings of this study revealed that distributed and single-user VR has become essential to digitalising the FFE sector's design communication with improved design communication being regarded as the most important benefit of its use. Conversely, the most critical challenge that inhibits the implementation of these two VR applications in the FFE sector is the perceived cost. Originality/value This study provides valuable insight to FFE's stakeholders to devise action plans to mitigate myriad complex and interrelated factors that affect the adoption of virtual reality technology in the FFE sector that are otherwise very hard to understand, and the consequential implementation of any mitigation plans cannot be devised.

The use of Immersive Virtual Reality (IVR) in collaborative and codesign contexts has proven valuable to product or industrial design specializations, yet integration has been notoriously slowwithin HigherEducation (HE). This work sheds some light on the "why?" based on primary data sourced from two groups of design educators, through a mixed-methods design. The first group confirms the importance of digital and connected technologies in today's design-centered learning environment and depict current stances regarding the use IVR as a tool for teaching and learning. The second, composed solely of educators operating in an industrial design HE program, add specificity by offering qualitative insight into aspects concerning IVR utility and integration into this particular specialization. Results foresee the technology furthering learning both on-campus and from afar, with richer virtual interactions, digital re-enactment of experiential learning, or using simulation to create new or replicate existing contexts virtually. However, the envisioned benefits appear to hinge on a series of factors, including critics over an already exceeding amount of technology in the learning environment, personal competence, skepticism over the technology merits, and other more concrete such as time, resources, familiarization or lack of technical support. Overall, participants envisage a more virtually interactive educational experience with IVR, though its reputed complexity or lack of a solid and pressing need seems to be keeping integration at bay.

Teachers attempt to use science simulation materials in high school. The edutainment materials also attract attention for the educational effect. We propose Interlude, which is a framework of 3D CG simulation materials for dynamics experiment. It uses HI input devices and VR technology. It offers demonstrations of dynamics phenomena, virtual experiments with various parameters, and game style exercises. The purpose of our research is to promote interest and concern of dynamics for students, and to bring up physical intuition. In this paper, we introduce the aspect model and usage model of Interlude materials. We also design the execution system.

Advances in haptic technologies can alter how real objects feel to our touch and create the experience of haptic augmented reality (AR). However, the definition, use cases, and value to end users of such haptic AR remain unclear. Existing work is concerned with technological implementation and lacks a user -centered perspective. To address these limitations, we analyze haptic AR systems in the literature to understand what constitutes haptic AR, why we would want to alter our sense of touch, and how haptic AR interactions take place. To demonstrate the value of studying haptic AR in the context of real -world tasks and user impressions of the concept itself, we also conducted a small exploratory study with five prototypical applications of different haptic AR systems. Our analysis highlights unexplored areas for haptics and HCI researchers and the need to conduct user evaluations of the overall concept rather than just point examples.

Background: As physical and cognitive rehabilitation protocols utilizing virtual environments transition from single applications to comprehensive rehabilitation programs there is a need for a new design cycle methodology. Current human-computer interaction designs focus on usability without benchmarking technology within a user-in-the-loop design cycle. The field of virtual rehabilitation is unique in that determining the efficacy of this genre of computer-aided therapies requires prior knowledge of technology issues that may confound patient outcome measures. Benchmarking the technology (e. g., displays or data gloves) using healthy controls may provide a means of characterizing the "normal" performance range of the virtual rehabilitation system. This standard not only allows therapists to select appropriate technology for use with their patient populations, it also allows them to account for technology limitations when assessing treatment efficacy. Methods: An overview of the proposed user-centered design cycle is given. Comparisons of two optical see-through head-worn displays provide an example of benchmarking techniques. Benchmarks were obtained using a novel vision test capable of measuring a user's stereoacuity while wearing different types of head-worn displays. Results from healthy participants who performed both virtual and real-world versions of the stereoacuity test are discussed with respect to virtual rehabilitation design. Results: The user-centered design cycle argues for benchmarking to precede virtual environment construction, especially for therapeutic applications. Results from real-world testing illustrate the general limitations in stereoacuity attained when viewing content using a head-worn display. Further, the stereoacuity vision benchmark test highlights differences in user performance when utilizing a similar style of head-worn display. These results support the need for including benchmarks as a means of better understanding user outcomes, especially for patient populations. Conclusions: The stereoacuity testing confirms that without benchmarking in the design cycle poor user performance could be misconstrued as resulting from the participant's injury state. Thus, a user-centered design cycle that includes benchmarking for the different sensory modalities is recommended for accurate interpretation of the efficacy of the virtual environment based rehabilitation programs.

Some interactions in virtual environments need to be operated on inclined planes. If a real inclined plane can be found in the real environment that corresponds exactly to the angle of the virtual inclined plane to provide haptic feedback, the user's immersion can be enhanced. However, it is not easy to find such a real inclined plane in the real environment. We proposed a horizontal plane haptic redirection scheme, where users interacting with virtual inclined planes in virtual environments can obtain haptic feelings by using real horizontal planes that are easily available in the real world for redirection mapping. We also designed an integrated solution to locate the real horizontal plane and for haptic redirection based on the Vive Pro headset. Then we measured the angle and size thresholds for horizontal plane haptic redirection as 20(o) and 88%, respectively, through a user study. Through experiments, we also found that when the degree of redirection exceeded the threshold, the user's operation efficiency would be significantly reduced. In addition, we compared the horizontal plane haptic redirection scheme with the scheme without redirection and the scheme without haptic feedback to demonstrate the validity and necessity of the redirection scheme proposed in this paper. Z8 0

Orthopaedic simulators are popular in innovative surgical training programs, where trainees gain procedural experience in a safe and controlled environment. Recent studies suggest that an ideal simulator should combine haptic, visual, and audio technology to create an immersive training environment. This article explores the potentialities of mixed-reality using the HoloLens to develop a hybrid training system for orthopaedic open surgery. Hip arthroplasty, one of the most common orthopaedic procedures, was chosen as a benchmark to evaluate the proposed system. Patient-specific anatomical 3D models were extracted from a patient computed tomography to implement the virtual content and to fabricate the physical components of the simulator. Rapid prototyping was used to create synthetic bones. The Vuforia SDK was utilized to register virtual and physical contents. The Unity3D game engine was employed to develop the software allowing interactions with the virtual content using head movements, gestures, and voice commands. Quantitative tests were performed to estimate the accuracy of the system by evaluating the perceived position of augmented reality targets. Mean and maximum errors matched the requirements of the target application. Qualitative tests were carried out to evaluate workload and usability of the HoloLens for our orthopaedic simulator, considering visual and audio perception and interaction and ergonomics issues. The perceived overall workload was low, and the self-assessed performance was considered satisfactory. Visual and audio perception and gesture and voice interactions obtained a positive feedback. Postural discomfort and visual fatigue obtained a nonnegative evaluation for a simulation session of 40 minutes. These results encourage using mixed-reality to implement a hybrid simulator for orthopaedic open surgery. An optimal design of the simulation tasks and equipment setup is required to minimize the user discomfort. Future works will include Face Validity, Content Validity, and Construct Validity to complete the assessment of the hip arthroplasty simulator.

Head-mounted devices (HMDs) for Virtual and Augmented Reality (VR/AR) enable us to alter our visual perception of the world. However, current devices suffer from a limited field of view (FOV), which becomes problematic when users need to locate out of view objects (e.g., locating points-of-interest during sightseeing). To address this, we developed and evaluated in two studies HaloVR, WedgeVR, HaloAR and WedgeAR, which are inspired by usable 2D off-screen object visualization techniques (Halo, Wedge). While our techniques resulted in overall high usability, we found the choice of AR or VR impacts mean search time (VR: 2.25s, AR: 3.92s) and mean direction estimation error (VR: 21.85 degrees, AR: 32.91 degrees). Moreover, while adding more out-of-view objects significantly affects search time across VR and AR, direction estimation performance remains unaffected. We provide implications and discuss the challenges of designing for VR and AR HMDs.

When designing an artificial tutor, the question arises: should we opt for a virtual or a physical embodied conversational agent? With this work we contribute to the ongoing debate of whether, when and how virtual agents or robots provide more benefits to the user and conducted an experimental study on linguistic alignment processes in HCI in the context of second language acquisition. In our study (n = 130 non-native speakers) we explored the influence of design characteristics and investigated the influence of embodiment (virtual agent vs. robot vs. speech based interaction) and system voice (text-to-speech vs. prerecorded speech) on participants' perception of the system, their motivation, their lexical and syntactical alignment during interaction and their learning effect after the interaction. The variation of system characteristics had no influence on the evaluation of the system or participants' alignment behavior.

In the realm of virtual reality (VR), shape-changing controllers have emerged as a means to enhance visuo-haptic congruence during user interactions. The major emphasis has been placed on manipulating the inertia tensor of a shape-changing controller to control the perceived shape. This paper delves deeper by exploring how the material properties of the controller's handle, distinct from the inertial information, affect the perceived shape, focusing on the perceived length. We conducted three perceptual experiments to examine the effects of the handle's softness, thermal conductivity, and texture, respectively. Results demonstrated that a softer handle increases the perceived length, whereas a handle with higher thermal conductivity reduces it. Texture, in the form of varying bumps, also alters the length perception. These results provide more comprehensive knowledge of the intricate relationship between perceived length and controller handle properties, expanding the design alternatives for shape-changing controllers for immersive VR experiences.

A distributed collaborative virtual assembly system with three-dimensional force feedback is designed and constructed, which is mainly composed by a single server, two sets of display terminals and two Falcon 3D force feedback devices over a network connection, and we use technologies such as virtual assembly, distributed virtual simulation, touch interaction, and voice communication to implement multiplayer tactile collaborative product assembly. The paper presents a distributed haptic synchronization perception method, of which participants select the appropriate assembling parts by the force feedback device separately, and then control the parts to move in different directions, and control the movement speed of the parts, and adjust the movement route of parts in time. System can receive the joystick real-time data, and calculates the control parameters and synchronize output to the force feedback device, to control the device to produce the action, to complete the assembly of the virtual engine model within the limited time. Participants can not only feel the weight of the relevant assembly parts, and can also have the feeling of the collision impact force.

Virtual reality (VR) uses three main senses to relay information: sight, sound, and touch. People with visual impairments (PVI) rely primarily on auditory and haptic feedback to receive information in VR. While researchers have explored several approaches to make navigation and perception of objects more accessible in VR, none of them offer a natural way to request descriptions of objects, nor control of the flow of auditory information. In this demonstration, we present a haptic glove that PVI can use to request object descriptions in VR with their hands through familiar hand gestures. We contribute designs for a set of hand gestures that allow PVI to interactively get descriptions of the VR environment. We plan to conduct an user study where we will have PVI interact with a VR environment using these gestures to request audio descriptions.

Policymakers advocate for the use of external Human-Machine Interfaces (eHMIs) to allow autonomous vehicles (AVs) to communicate their intentions or status. Nonetheless, scalability concerns in complex traffic scenarios arise, such as potentially increasing pedestrian cognitive load or conveying contradictory signals. Building upon precursory works, our study explores 'interconnected eHMIs,' where multiple AV interfaces are interconnected to provide pedestrians with clear and unified information. In a virtual reality study (N=32), we assessed the effectiveness of this concept in improving pedestrian safety and their crossing experience. We compared these results against two conditions: no eHMIs and unconnected eHMIs. Results indicated interconnected eHMIs enhanced safety feelings and encouraged cautious crossings. However, certain design elements, such as the use of the colour red, led to confusion and discomfort. Prior knowledge slightly influenced perceptions of interconnected eHMIs, underscoring the need for refined user education. We conclude with practical implications and future eHMI design research directions.

Immersive media technology such as virtual reality provides the unique opportunity to place participants in multisensory hyper-connected universes where auditory and visual senses are intimately connected, and worlds can be built out of fractal geometries. Crystal Vibes is an artistic piece that combines spatial audio, endless fractal geometries, full-body haptic vibration feedback and sound-to-colour visualisation based on empirical biological functions related to human auditory and visual perception. Exhibited at Sundance Film Festival New Frontier in January 2017, and at Kaleidoscope Showcase Vol. 2 in 10 cities across the world, in this paper we report on insights from user feedback, as well as details of the technical implementation, including real-time rendering of seemingly infinite fractal-like structures, the haptic design philosophy and the sound-visualisation technique. Finally, we comment on the psychology and utility of such virtual environments.

Internet of Things (IoT) enables the creation of sensing and computing machines to enhance the level of continuous adaptation and support provided by intelligent systems to humans. Nevertheless, these systems still depend on human intervention, for example, in maintenance and (re)configuration tasks. To this measure, the development of an Adaptive Instructional System (AIS) in the context of IoT allows for the creation of new, improved learning and training environments. One can test new approaches to improve the training and perception efficiency of humans. Examples are the use of virtual and augmented reality, the inclusion of nature inspired metaphors based on biophilic design and calm computing principles and the design of technology that aims at changing the users' behaviour through persuasion and social influence. In this work, we specifically propose a nature inspired visual representation concept, BioIoT, to communicate sensor information. Our results show that this new representation contributes to the users' well-being and performance while remaining as easy to understand as traditional data representations (based on an experiment with twelve participants over two weeks). We present a use case under which we apply the BioIoT concept. It serves the purpose of demonstrating the BioIoT benefits in a AR setting, when applied in households and workplaces scenarios. Furthermore, by leveraging our previous experience in the development of adaptive and supportive systems based on eye-tracking, we discuss the application of this new sensing technology to the support of users in machine intervention by using the user attention, i.e., eye-gaze, on different machine parts as a way to infer the user's needs and adapt the system accordingly. In this way, a new level of continuous support can be provided to the users depending on their skill level and individual needs in the form of contextualized instructions and action recommendations based on user attention.

Immersive authoring refers to the style of programming or developing content from within the targetexecutable environment. Immersive authoring is important for fields such as augmented reality (AR) in which interaction usability and user perception of the target content must be checked first hand, in situ. In addition, the interaction efficiency and usability of the authoring tools itself is equally important forease of authoring. In this paper, we propose design principles and describe an implementation of animmersive authoring system for AR. More importantly, we present a formal user study demonstrating its benefits and weaknesses. In particular, our results demonstrate that, compared to using the traditional 2D desktop development method, immersive authoring gained significant efficiency in specifying spatial arrangements and behavior tasks, a major component of AR content authoring. However, it was not so successful for abstract tasks such as logical programming. Based on this result, we suggest that a comprehensive AR authoring tool should include such immersive authoring functionality to help, particularly non-technical media artists, create effective contents based on the characteristics of the underlying media and interaction style. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

More than 400 underwater sites in and around the U.S. are potentially contaminated with hazardous undetonated munitions due to military testing activities [1]. The main remediation methods currently employed are 1. sending divers to manually retrieve the munitions and 2. blowing the munitions in place. Manual remediation is dangerous to the divers and blow-in-place strategies are environmentally damaging and harmful to nearby marine life. Teleoperation is an alternative remediation method that does not put people's lives at risk, and, if successfully carried out, is environmentally friendly. However, traditional teleoperation methods suffer from unintuitive and ineffective operator input control due to limitations such as poor depth perception by viewing the worksite from 2D displays and poor operator input control methods by using awkward input devices. Virtual reality interfaces immerse users in simulated environments and allow them to view and interact with simulated objects naturally. In this work, intuitive and effective input control methods based on Virtual Reality were designed and implemented as a ROS (Robot Operating System) package to teleoperate a robot arm for the remediation of underwater munitions using commercial off-the-shelf VR hardware. The control methods and ROS package are generalizable for other telerobotic applications.

The visualization of spaces, both virtual and built, has long been an important part of the environment design process. Industry tools to visualize occupancy have grown from simple drop-in stock photos post-design to real-time crowds simulations. However, while treatment of visualization and collaborative design processes has long been discussed in the HCI and Architecture communities, these inclusive design methods are infrequently seen in architecture education (e.g. studio) and practice, nor implemented in licensure requirements - leaving designers to think about the future occupants on their own. While there are strong indicators of the impact visualization modality and rendering style have on perception of scale and space, little has been explored regarding how we represent the human form with respect to these design tools and practices. We present findings from a novel online interactive space planning and estimation study that examines the effects of 3 common building visualization modalities in the design process with 3 human form modalities extracted from the architecture literature. Results indicate the type of visualization changes the number of occupants estimated, and that designers prefer integrated manikins within building models when estimating space usage, although their acceptance was equally divided between 2D and 3D. Our findings lay the foundation for new and focused design tools integrating human form and factors at building scale.

Virtual reality (VR) ofers various opportunities for innovative therapeutic approaches, especially regarding self-related mind-body interventions. We introduce a VR body swap system enabling multiple users to swap their perspectives and appearances and evaluate its efects on virtual sense of embodiment (SoE) and perception and cognition-based self-related processes. In a self-compassion-framed scenario, twenty participants embodied their personalized, photorealistic avatar, swapped bodies with an unfamiliar peer, and reported their SoE, interoceptive awareness (perception), and self-compassion (cognition). Participants' experiences difered between bottom-up and top-down processes. Regarding SoE, their agency and self-location shifted to the swap avatar, while their top-down self-identifcation remained with their personalized avatar. Further, the experience positively afected interoceptive awareness but not self-compassion. Our outcomes ofer novel insights into the SoE in a multiple-embodiment scenario and highlight the need to diferentiate between the diferent processes in intervention design. They raise concerns and requirements for future research on avatar-based mind-body interventions.

When using a see-through augmented reality head-mounted display system (AR HMD), a user's perception of virtual content may be degraded by a variety of perceptual artifacts resulting from the architecture of rendering and display pipelines. In particular, virtual content that is rendered to appear stationary in the real world (world-locked) can be susceptible to spatial and temporal 3D position errors. A subset of these errors, termed jitter, result from mismatches between the spatial localization, rendering, and display pipelines, and can manifest as perceived motion of intended-to-be stationary content. Here, we employ psychophysical methods to quantify the perceptibility of jitter artifacts in an AR HMD. For some viewing conditions, participants perceived jitter that was smaller than the pixel pitch of the testbed (i.e., subpixel jitter). In general, we found that jitter perceptibility increased as viewing distance increased and decreased as background luminance increased. We did not find that the contrast ratio of virtual content, age, or experience with AR/VR modulated jitter perceptibility. Taken together, this study quantifies the degree of jitter that a user can perceive in an AR HMD and demonstrates that it is critical to consider the capabilities and limits of the human visual system when designing the next generation of spatial computing platforms.

Augmented Reality (AR) is a class of mediated reality that artificially modifies the human perception by superimposing virtual objects on the real world, which is expected to supplement reality. In visual-based augmentation, text and graphics, i.e., label, are often associated with a physical object or a place to describe it. View management in AR is to maintain the visibility of the associated information and plays an important role on communicating the information. Various view management techniques have been investigated so far; however, most of them have been designed for two dimensional see-through displays, and few have been investigated for projector-based AR called spatial AR. In this article, we propose a view management method for spatial AR, VisLP, that places labels and linkage lines based on the estimation of the visibility. Since the information is directly projected on objects, the nature of optics such as reflection and refraction constrains the visibility in addition to the spatial relationship between the information, the objects, and the user. VisLP employs machine-learning techniques to estimate the visibility that reflects human's subjective mental workload in reading information and objective measures of reading correctness in various projection conditions. Four classes are defined for a label, while the visibility of a linkage line has three classes. After 88 and 28 classification features for label and linkage line visibility estimators are designed, respectively, subsets of features with 15 and 14 features are chosen to improve the processing speed of feature calculation up to 170%, with slight degradation of classification performance. An online experiment with new users and objects showed that 76.0% of the system's judgments were matched with the users' evaluations, while 73% of the linkage line visibility estimations were matched.

A fundamental problem in optical, see-through augmented reality (AR) is characterizing how it affects the perception of spatial layout and depth. This problem is important because AR system developers need to both place graphics in arbitrary spatial relationships with real-world objects, and to know that users will perceive them in the same relationships. Furthermore, AR makes possible enhanced perceptual techniques that have no real-world equivalent, such as x-ray vision, where AR users are supposed to perceive graphics as being located behind opaque surfaces. This paper reviews and discusses protocols for measuring egocentric depth judgments in both virtual and augmented environments, and discusses the well-known problem of depth underestimation in virtual environments. It then describes two experiments that measured egocentric depth judgments in AR. Experiment I used a perceptual matching protocol to measure AR depth judgments at medium and far-field distances of 5 to 45 meters. The experiment studied the effects of upper versus lower visual field location, the x-ray vision condition, and practice on the task. The experimental findings include evidence for a switch in bias, from underestimating to overestimating the distance of AR-presented graphics, at similar to 23 meters, as well as a quantification of how much more difficult the x-ray vision condition makes the task. Experiment II used blind walking and verbal report protocols to measure AR depth judgments at distances of 3 to 7 meters. The experiment examined real-world objects, real-world objects seen through the AR display, virtual objects, and combined real and virtual objects. The results give evidence that the egocentric depth of AR objects is underestimated at these distances, but to a lesser degree than has previously been found for most virtual reality environments. The results are consistent with previous studies that have implicated a restricted field-of-view, combined with an inability for observers to scan the ground plane in a near-to-far direction, as explanations for the observed depth underestimation.

Skin-slip provides crucial cues about the interaction state and surface properties. Currently, most skin-slip devices focus on two-dimensional tactile slip display and have limitations when displaying surface properties like bumps and contours. In this article, a wearable fingertip device with a simple, effective, and low-cost design for three-dimensional skin-slip display is proposed. Continuous multi-directional skin-slip and normal indentation are combined to convey the sensation of three-dimensional geometric properties in virtual reality during active finger exploration. The device has a tactile belt, a five-bar mechanism, and four motors. Cooperating with the angle-mapping strategy, two micro DC motors are used to transmit continuous multi-directional skin-slip. Two servo motors are used to drive the five-bar mechanism to provide normal indentation. The characteristics of the device were obtained through the bench tests. Three experiments were designed and sequentially conducted to evaluate the performance of the device in three-dimensional surface exploration. The experimental results suggested that this device could effectively transmit continuous multi-directional skin-slip sensations, convey different bumps, and display surface contours. Z8 0

The question of whether the sense of presence in virtual environments (or telepresence with respect to teleoperator systems) is causally related to task performance remains unanswered because the appropriate studies have yet to be carried out. In this brief report, the author describes a strategy for resolving this issue and the results of a pilot study in which this strategy was implemented.

Social priming is the idea that observations of a virtual human (VH) engaged in short social interactions with a real or virtual human bystander can positively influence users' subsequent interactions with that VH. In this paper we investigate the question of whether the positive effects of social priming are limited to interactions with humanoid entities. For instance, virtual dogs offer an attractive candidate for non-humanoid entities, as previous research suggests multiple positive effects. In particular, real human dog owners receive more positive attention from strangers than non-dog owners. To examine the influence of such social priming we carried out a human-subjects experiment with four conditions: three social priming conditions where a participant initially observed a VH interacting with one of three virtual entities (another VH, a virtual pet dog, or a virtual personal robot), and a non-social priming condition where a VH (alone) was intently looking at her phone as if reading something. We recruited 24 participants and conducted a mixed-methods analysis. We found that a VH's prior social interactions with another VH and a virtual dog significantly increased participants' perceptions of the VHs' affective attraction. Also, participants felt more inclined to interact with the VH in the future in all of the social priming conditions. Qualitatively, we found that the social priming conditions resulted in a more positive user experience than the non-social priming condition. Also, the virtual dog and the virtual robot were perceived as a source of positive surprise, with participants appreciating the non-humanoid interactions for various reasons, such as the avoidance of social anxieties sometimes associated with humans.

In this study, a method, in which parametric design and robotic fabrication are combined into one unified framework, and integrated within a mixed reality environment, where designers can interact with design and fabrication alternatives, and manage this process in collaboration with other designers, is proposed. To achieve this goal, the digital twin of both design and robotic fabrication steps was created within a mixed-reality environment. The proposed method was tested on a design product, which was defined with the shape-grammar method using parametric-modeling tools. In this framework, designers can interact with both design and robotic-fabrication parameters, and subsequent steps are generated instantly. Robotic fabrication can continue uninterrupted with human-robot collaboration. This study contributes to improving design and fabrication possibilities such as mass-customization, and shortens the process from design to production. The user experience and augmented spatial feedback provided by mixed reality are richer than the interaction with the computer screen. Since the whole process from parametric design to robotic fabrication can be controlled by parameters with hand gestures, the perception of reality is richer. The digital twin of parametric design and robotic fabrication is superimposed as holographic content by adding it on top of real-world images. Designers can interact with both design and fabrication processes both physically and virtually and can collaborate with other designers.

This article presents a novel method for controlling a virtual audience system (VAS) in Virtual Reality (VR) application, called STAGE, which has been originally designed for supervised public speaking training in university seminars dedicated to the preparation and delivery of scientific talks. We are interested in creating pedagogical narratives: narratives encompass affective phenomenon and rather than organizing events changing the course of a training scenario, pedagogical plans using our system focus on organizing the affects it arouses for the trainees. Efficiently controlling a virtual audience towards a specific training objective while evaluating the speaker's performance presents a challenge for a seminar instructor: the high level of cognitive and physical demands required to be able to control the virtual audience, whilst evaluating speaker's performance, adjusting and allowing it to quickly react to the user's behaviors and interactions. It is indeed a critical limitation of a number of existing systems that they rely on a Wizard of Oz approach, where the tutor drives the audience in reaction to the user's performance. We address this problem by integrating with a VAS a high-level control component for tutors, which allows using predefined audience behavior rules, defining custom ones, as well as intervening during run-time for finer control of the unfolding of the pedagogical plan. At its core, this component offers a tool to program, select, modify and monitor interactive training narratives using a high-level representation. The STAGE offers the following features: i) a high-level API to program pedagogical narratives focusing on a specific public speaking situation and training objectives, ii) an interactive visualization interface iii) computation and visualization of user metrics, iv) a semi-autonomous virtual audience composed of virtual spectators with automatic reactions to the speaker and surrounding spectators while following the pedagogical plan V) and the possibility for the instructor to embody a virtual spectator to ask questions or guide the speaker from within the Virtual Environment. We present here the design, and implementation of the tutoring system and its integration in STAGE, and discuss its reception by end-users.

This work reports how text size and other rendering conditions affect reading speeds in a virtual reality environment and a scientific data analysis application. Displaying text legibly yet space-efficiently is a challenging problem in immersive displays. Effective text displays that enable users to read at their maximum speed must consider the variety of virtual reality (VR) display hardware and possible visual exploration tasks. We investigate how text size and display parameters affect reading speed and legibility in three state-of-the-art VR displays: two head-mounted displays and one CAVE. In our perception experiments, we establish limits where reading speed declines as the text size approaches the so-called critical print sizes (CPS) of individual displays, which can inform the design of uniform reading experiences across different VR systems. We observe an inverse correlation between display resolution and CPS. Yet, even in high-fidelity VR systems, the measured CPS was larger than in comparable physical text displays, highlighting the value of increased VR display resolutions in certain visualization scenarios. Our findings indicate that CPS can be an effective metric for evaluating VR display usability. Additionally, we evaluate the effects of text panel placement, orientation, and occlusion-reducing rendering methods on reading speeds in generic volumetric particle visualizations. Our study provides insights into the trade-off between text representation and legibility in cluttered immersive environments with specific suggestions for visualization designers and highlight areas for further research.

Embodied virtual agents (EVAs) are used in various online shopping scenarios to enhance consumer experience. Humanoid avatars and output modalities of EVAs are two important factors affecting online shopping experience, which have been widely studied in shopping websites before. Moreover, immersive virtual reality (IVR) shopping is a future trend in online shopping, but research on EVAs in IVR environments is limited. The impact of them in an IVR shopping environment is not yet fully understood. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the effect of an EVA's humanoid avatar and output modalities on the online shopping experience in an IVR environment. First, 66 participants were invited to participate in a 2 (humanoid avatar: presence vs. absence) x 3 (output modalities: text-only, voice-only, and text and voice) within-group experiment to complete the specified purchase task. After each purchase task was completed, participants were required to fill in a subjective questionnaire to score the six different combinations of virtual agents (VAs). After all purchase tasks were completed, a follow-up interview was conducted to better obtain the participants' preferences and detailed reasons for the six different combinations of VAs. The results showed that humanoid avatars significantly enhanced participants' perceptions of warmth, communication, trust, and satisfaction. Additionally, output modalities significantly enhanced participants' perception of warmth, communication, trust, comfort, and satisfaction. Finally, the humanoid avatar and output modalities had significant interactions in terms of comfort. The results of this research provide theoretical reference and guidance for the design of VAs in IVR shopping environment, and also provide inspiration for the design and research of VAs in other online shopping environments.

In this paper we present a user-centered design approach to the development of a Virtual Environment (VE), by utilizing an iterative, user-informed process throughout the entire design and development cycle. A preliminary survey was first undertaken with end users, that is, architects, chief engineers, and decision makers of a real-world architectural and urban planning project, followed by a study of the traditional workflow employed. We then determined the elements required to make the VE useful in the real-world setting, choosing appropriate graphical and auditory techniques to develop audiovisual VEs with a high level of realism. Our user-centered design approach guided the development of an appropriate interface and an evaluation methodology to test the over-all usability of the system. The VE was evaluated both in the laboratory and, most importantly, in the users' natural work environments. In this study we present the choices we made as part of the design and evaluation methodologies employed, which successfully combined research goals with those of a real-world project. Among other results, this evaluation suggests that involving users and designers from the beginning improves the effectiveness of the VE in the context of the real world urban planning project. Furthermore, it demonstrates that appropriate levels of realism, in particular spatialized 3D sound, high-detail vegetation, and shadows, as well as the presence of rendered crowds, are significant for the design process and for communicating about designs; they enable better appreciation of overall ambience of the VE, perception of space and physical objects, as well as the sense of scale. We believe this study is of interest to VE researchers, designers, and practitioners, as well as professionals interested in using VR in their workplace.

Collaborative virtual environments afford new capabilities in telepresence applications, allowing participants to co-inhabit an environment to interact while being embodied via avatars. However, shared content within these environments often takes away the attention of collaborators from observing the non-verbal cues conveyed by their peers, resulting in less effective communication. Exaggerated gestures, abstract visuals, as well as a combination of the two, have the potential to improve the effectiveness of communication within these environments in comparison to familiar, natural non-verbal visualizations. We designed and conducted a user study where we evaluated the impact of these different non-verbal visualizations on users' identification time, understanding, and perception. We found that exaggerated gestures generally perform better than non-exaggerated gestures, abstract visuals are an effective means to convey intentional reactions, and the combination of gestures with abstract visuals provides some benefits compared to their standalone counterparts.

Recent scholarship suggests that virtual environments can serve as effective proxies in battling implicit stereotypes. However, existing experimental research has rarely examined the effectiveness of virtual simulations of mental illnesses in inducing empathy to combat stereotypical responses. We report results from a 4-condition, between subjects experiment (N = 112), wherein participants were exposed to either a virtual simulation of schizophrenia, a written empathy-set induction of schizophrenia, a combination of both the simulation and written empathy conditions, or a control condition. The results indicated that the virtual simulation + empathy condition induced greater empathy and more positive perceptions toward people suffering from schizophrenia than the control or written empathy-set condition. Interestingly, the simulation-only condition resulted in the greatest desire for social distance whereas not significantly differing on empathy and attitude measures from either the written empathy or simulation + empathy conditions. We discuss the implications of the findings and recommend directions for future research.

This study aims to determine the design features that affect mobile application design and to classify these features according to customer perception. The methodology involved an exhaustive examination of Turkish mobile applications, consultations with an expert academic, scrutiny of forum pages, and an extensive literature review. Subsequently, the categorization of these features based on customer satisfaction was pursued through a survey conducted with 525 participants. The suggested fuzzy methods play a crucial role in mitigating information loss associated with crispness, presenting a promising avenue to enhance the accuracy of user expectation classification in e-commerce mobile applications. The findings of this study are expected to provide insights into how mobile application features differ across various demographic group. The "Attractive" features identified include One-Step Registration, Augmented Reality, Wishlist, Personalized Customer Experience, Fast Payment, Offline Features, Sale Progress Bar, Easy Browsing, Share Button, Loyalty Program, Product Comparison, Shipping Flexibility, and Barcode Scanning.

The direct fundoscopy examination procedure involves interpreting the intricate anatomy of the eye when viewed through the lens of an ophthalmoscope. Mastering this procedure is difficult, and it requires extensive training that still employs instructional materials including pictures, illustrations, videos, and more recently, interactive computer-generated models. With the goal of adding realism to eye fundus training and overcoming the limitations of traditional media, the simulators employing manikin heads can be used. Such simulations utilize inter-changeable pictures and embedded displays that allow the presentation of various eye conditions. Modern simulators include immersive technologies such as virtual reality and augmented reality that are providing innovative training opportunities. Unfortunately, current high end virtual and augmented reality simulation is quite expensive and for more adequate experience, it engages only single trainee at a time. This paper addresses the question of whether lower end simulation systems could provide comparable training experiences at an affordable cost. With respect to this, we discuss the design and development of two augmented reality systems for eye fundus examination training employing low-cost mobile platforms. We conclude with reporting that some preliminary results of the experimental use of the systems include usability perception feedback and comparisons with the Eyesi simulator.

In Virtual Reality, visuo-haptic illusions such as hand redirection introduce a discrepancy between the user's hand and its virtual avatar. This visual shift can be used, for instance, to provide multiple virtual haptic objects through a single physical proxy object. This lowcost approach improves the sense of presence, however, it is unclear how these illusions impact the hand trajectory and if there is a relationship between trajectory and the detection of illusion. In this paper, we present an empirical model predicting the hand trajectory as a function of the redirection. It relies on a cubic B ' ezier curve with 4 control points. We conduct a two alternative forced choice (2AFC) experiment to calibrate and validate our model. Results show that (1) our model predicts well the hand trajectory of each individual using a single parameter; (2) the hand trajectory better explains the detection of the illusion than the amplitude of the redirection alone; (3) a user specific calibration allows to predict per-user redirected trajectories and detection probabilities. Our findings provide a better understanding of visuo-haptic illusions and how they impact the user's movements. As such they may provide foundations to design novel interaction techniques, e.g. interacting in a scene with multiple physical obstacles.

The embodiment of virtual hand (VH) by the user is generally deemed to be important for virtual reality (VR) based hand rehabilitation applications, which may help to engage the user and promote motor skill relearning. In particular, it requires that the VH should produce task-dependent interaction behaviors from rigid to soft. While such a capability is inherent to humans via hand stiffness regulation and haptic interactions, yet it have not been successfully imitated by VH in existing studies. In this paper, we present a work which integrates biomimetic stiffness regulation and wearable finger force feedback in VR scenarios involving myoelectric control of VH. On one hand, the biomimetic stiffness modulation intuitively enables VH to imitate the stiffness profile of the user's hand in real time. On the other hand, the wearable finger force-feedback device elicits a natural and realistic sensation of external force on the fingertip, which provides the user a proper understanding of the environment for enhancing his/her stiffness regulation. The benefits of the proposed integrated system were evaluated with eight healthy subjects that performed two tasks with opposite stiffness requirements. The achieved performance is compared with reduced versions of the integrated system, where either biomimetic impedance control or wearable force feedback is excluded. The results suggest that the proposed integrated system enables the stiffness of VH to be adaptively regulated by the user through the perception of interaction torques and vision, resulting in task-dependent behaviors from rigid to soft for VH.

Purpose High-street fashion retail faces an uncertain future because of fluctuating consumer shopping habits. To revive fashion retailers, adopting disruptive technologies such as virtual reality (VR) becomes important to offer highly valued consumer experiences. Yet v-commerce designers still lack sufficient guidance to create effective retail environments. This paper establishes the v-commerce experience that targets fashion consumers' desire and presents 13 specific design guidelines. Design/methodology/approach In this study, 22 participants, 20 consumers and two VR developers were interviewed regarding attitudes towards VR, motivation to shop through v-commerce and the moderating variables that influence virtual environment perceptions. Findings Consumers expect a vivid shopping environment with authentic product features instead of the more common simulated environment. Hedonically motivated consumers are more open to v-commerce than utilitarian consumers and consumers aged 18-34 years regard interactivity, personalisation and social networking as critical to offer a cost-efficient shopping experience. Research limitations/implications This paper explored the ways v-commerce delivers creative experiences to facilitate consumer purchase behaviour, contributing to the high street's regeneration. Yet consumers have too high expectations of lifelike interaction in v-commerce, which is beyond contemporary VR's capabilities. Future research should focus on developing authenticity of v-commerce environments, i.e. vivid interaction with product and people. Originality/value This paper establishes the fundamental design rules for v-commerce platforms, enabling designers to create effective retail environments, sympathetic to the consumer's cognitive desires.

This study presents a novel system that enhances air cannon tactile perception using synchronous galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS). We conducted a user study with a within-subjects design to evaluate the enhancement effects of synchronous GVS on air cannon tactile sensations across multiple body locations. Results demonstrated significant improvements without affecting the magnitude of physical body sway, suggesting potential applications in virtual reality, particularly for augmenting existing air vortex ring haptics use cases.

An Embodied Conversational Agent (ECA) is a virtual character designed to interact with humans in the most natural way. In the recent years, ECAs have been deployed in various contexts, such as commercial consulting and social training. In the context of social training, the virtual agent should be able to express different social attitudes in order to train the user in different situations, likely to occur in real life. Previous studies from psychology underlined the importance of considering the non-verbal behavior as well as its evolution over time, for efficient modeling of interpersonal attitudes. Inspired by these works as well as by advances from sequence mining, we propose to model attitude variation as a sequence of non-verbal signals, each being described by its starting time and duration. We demonstrate the efficiency of our model by integrating the sequences representing attitude variation in an ECA and assessing the obtained results based on the interpersonal circumplex, statistical tests and accuracy measures. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to study the relationship, in term of perception, between different attitude variations.

In this paper, we present a design of a wearable equipment that helps with the perception of the environment for visually impaired people in both indoor and outdoor mobility and navigation. Our prototype can detect and identify traffic situations such as street crossings, traffic lamps, cars, cyclists, other people and obstacles hanging down from above or placed on the ground. The detection takes place in real time based on input data of sensors and cameras, the mobility of the user is aided with audio signals.

A novel training and control system has been initialized for an Underwater Robotics Vehicle (URV). The topside controllers linked through Internet / User Datagram Protocol consist of the operator control panel, dynamic module and 3D virtual display developed using LabVIEW and WorldToolKit. It is well known that force feedback can be employed to enhance the touch perception in the virtual environment (VE). This paper presents the control strategy of force feedback using a commercially inexpensive force feedback joystick and its implementation in LabVIEW. The pilot can steer and guide the vehicle using the joystick with two basic behavior force modes, namely joystick based behavioral effects and vehicle dynamic based behavioral effects. When the vehicle in the virtual environment approaches an obstacle, the operator can experience a "wall" force that will prevent the vehicle from collision. However, in the event of collision, either due to the operator's mishandling or unknown water current interference, a vibration force is used to simulate this event. All these force effects are generated to enhance haptic perceptions for the operator in the real underwater environment while interacting with the simulation. This paper gives the interface design of joystick force functions in LabVIEW environment. Instead of hardwired control consoles, LabVIEW based user interfaces have been developed in the URV topside control system because LabVIEW is a powerful graphical language with friendly human interaction where prototyping and modification are easy and flexible.

Issues in both depth-perception performance and simulator-sickness effects may hinder future applications of virtual reality. Applications for depth perception are varied, including military, sports, and architecture domains. The purpose of this study is to compare different commercial-off-the-shelf head-mounted displays and their content, through depth-perception tasks. We also investigate simulator sickness profiles to promote further risk mitigation in such displays. Specifically, the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift Consumer Version 1 were examined in between-groups and within-groups designs, with both head-mounted displays supplying the same exocentric depth-perception tasks across three virtual environments of increasing ecological complexity. Depth-perception performance was measured objectively and simulator sickness was measured subjectively via questionnaire. Results, analyzed using non-parametric statistics, indicated significant differences for performance and simulator sickness, for both between- and within-groups studies. Although distance changes were detected equally between displays, a tradeoff occurred where the Vive had better distance classification, but the Rift had shorter time duration. Hardware issues are considered for performance differences. For post-test simulator sickness, Vive and Rift only differed in terms of fatigue, an oculomotor-based issue with probable user-avoidance strategies; the difference may relate to latency. Performance within Rift and Vive only partially showed a benefit for highrealism scenarios, yet both displays provide distinct scenario-change baselines for personnel selection. Simulator sickness for both devices showed Oculomotor subscale increases in pre-to-post test questionnaire scores, with the Vive having an additional increase in Total scores. The latter Oculomotor increase may be driven by blur. In respect to the observations, multiple factors exist for selection, including performance and simulator sickness tradeoffs.

Error perception is known to elicit distinct brain patterns, which can be used to improve the usability of systems facilitating human-computer interactions, such as brain-computer interfaces. This requires a high-accuracy detection of erroneous events, e.g., misinterpretations of the user's intention by the interface, to allow for suitable reactions of the system. In this work, we concentrate on steering-based navigation tasks. We present a combined electroencephalography-virtual reality (VR) study investigating different approaches for error detection and simultaneously exploring the corrective human behavior to erroneous events in a VR flight simulation. We could classify different errors allowing us to analyze neural signatures of unexpected changes in the VR. Moreover, the presented models could detect errors faster than participants naturally responded to them. This work could contribute to developing adaptive VR applications that exclusively rely on the user's physiological information.

A moral dilemma is a decision-making paradox without un-ambiguously acceptable or preferable options. This paper investigates if and how the virtual enactment of two renowned moral dilemmas-the Trolley and the Mad Bomber-influence decision-making when compared with mentally visualizing such situations. We conducted two user studies with two gender-balanced samples of 60 participants in total that compared between paper-based and virtual-reality (VR) conditions, while simulating 5 distinct scenarios for the Trolley dilemma, and 4 storyline scenarios for the Mad Bomber's dilemma. Our findings suggest that the VR enactment of moral dilemmas further fosters utilitarian decision-making, while it amplifies biases such as sparing juveniles and seeking retribution. Ultimately, we theorize that the VR enactment of renowned moral dilemmas can yield ecologically-valid data for training future Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems on ethical decision-making, and we elicit early design principles for the training of such systems.

3D visualization has witnessed exponential growth driven by advances in computer-generated imagery that now include immersive technologies enabling first-person experiences with depth perception and spatial awareness. We investigated two popular uses of VR in 3D architectural visualization: a "passive walkthrough" vs. an "interactive walkthrough". We designed a within-subject experiment to measure the user-perceived quality and conduct a behavior analysis of users in both experiences. All participants (N=34) were exposed to both conditions and afterwards responded to a post-experience questionnaire. We recorded the physical activity of all participants while they were immersed within the virtual environments and each session was logged in a time diary. So far QoE measurements have relied on subjective and objective evaluations. In this paper, we discuss the behavioral analysis of the effects of immersion and interaction on the simple active behaviors (movements + gestures) of the users. We apply quantitative behavioral observation to cross-examine user behavior against their self-reported responses to a "presence" questionnaire. We conclude that there is significant potential for applying cross-disciplinary behavior analysis tools to overall Quality of Experience within virtual environments.

In recent years, with the development of the Digital Revolution, information technologies such as digital twins and virtual reality are gradually penetrating people's daily learning and living environment. The digital twin historic landscape street has the performance advantages of virtual reality integration, real-time interaction, independent iteration, and dynamic perception. Taking the historical district of Yu Garden in Shanghai as an example, this paper builds a travel simulation model of the historical district based on the basic elements of the scene service of the digital twin district under the empowerment of "cloud, data and intelligence". With the digital twin lamps as the physical entity, the passenger flow dynamic simulation data model is constructed. The effectiveness of the model was verified through simulation of the impact of passenger flow changes on passenger flow, and improvements and enhancements were made to smart lighting fixtures in the block. This study explores the rich application scenarios of digital twin historic blocks and creates a scenario-based service model, which will fully activate various online and offline elements of historic landscape blocks, bringing users a brand-new immersive experience.

Designing spatial user interfaces for virtual reality (VR) applications that are intuitive, comfortable and easy to use while at the same time providing high task performance is a challenging task. This challenge is even harder to solve since perception and action in immersive virtual environments differ significantly from the real world, causing natural user interfaces to elicit a dissociation of perceptual and motor space as well as levels of discomfort and fatigue unknown in the real world. In this paper, we present and evaluate the novel method to leverage joint-centered kinespheres for interactive spatial applications. We introduce kinespheres within arm's reach that envelope the reachable space for each joint such as shoulder, elbow or wrist, thus defining 3D interactive volumes with the boundaries given by 2D manifolds. We present a Fitts' Law experiment in which we evaluated the spatial touch performance on the inside and on the boundary of the main joint-centered kinespheres. Moreover, we present a confirmatory experiment in which we compared joint-centered interaction with traditional spatial head-centered menus. Finally, we discuss the advantages and limitations of placing interactive graphical elements relative to joint positions and, in particular, on the boundaries of kinespheres.

This paper presents a tactile display device for replicating compliance sensation when interacting with deformable and non-deformable compliant objects in a virtual environment. Two small tilting plates approximately reproduce surface deformations of a compliant object. In addition to tactile information, kinesthetic information is rendered through a modified haptic paddle force feedback device. The tilting plates are moved in conjunction with the measured position of the user's finger as they pressed into the virtual surface. In a psychophysical experiment, we evaluated the effect of adding tilting motion of the device's actuated plates on the perceived compliance of a virtual surface with a kinesthetic stiffness of 60 N/mm. The experiment results indicate that tilting rates of 5, 10, and 20 deg/cm reduced the perceived stiffness of the surface by 3, 9, and 17 N/m, respectively. The advantages of the new device include its light-weight, low-cost, and simple design. These device features make it practical to integrate this compliance display with user interfaces for applications such as video games or even robotic surgery.

The great technological evolution of architectural rendering resources over the last few decades has opened up a new range of possibilities to visualise the non-built space. The spatial immersion systems, developed by the videogame industry, have entered in the sceptial area of architectural rendering, offering a series of undeniable advantages including enhancing the understanding of spaces to inexpert people. In order to study the benifits of these new virtual tools, an experimental study was carried out so as to compare the user response to technological and graphic support. With a simple of 84 individuals, the obtained data reveal significant differences in the space perception depending on the format and support used to their representation. The results of this study allow us to reflect on new means of architectural rendering in the professional and teaching field.

Purpose: To determine user satisfaction and safety of incorporating a low-cost virtual rehabilitation intervention as an adjunctive therapeutic option for cognitive-motor upper limb rehabilitation in individuals with sub-acute stroke. Methods: A low-cost upper limb virtual rehabilitation application incorporating realistic functionally-relevant unimanual and bimanual tasks, specifically designed for cognitive-motor rehabilitation was developed for patients with sub-acute stroke. Clinicians and individuals with stroke interacted with the intervention for 15-20 or 20-45 minutes, respectively. The study had a mixed-methods convergent parallel design that included a focus group interview with clinicians working in a stroke program and semi-structured interviews and standardized assessments (Borg Perceived Exertion Scale, Short Feedback Questionnaire) for participants with sub-acute stroke undergoing rehabilitation. The occurrence of adverse events was also noted. Results: Three main themes emerged from the clinician focus group and patient interviews: Perceived usefulness in rehabilitation, satisfaction with the virtual reality intervention and aspects to improve. All clinicians and the majority of participants with stroke were highly satisfied with the intervention and perceived its usefulness to decrease arm motor impairment during functional tasks. No participants experienced major adverse events. Conclusions: Incorporation of this type of functional activity game-based virtual reality intervention in the sub-acute phase of rehabilitation represents a way to transfer skills learned early in the clinical setting to real world situations. This type of intervention may lead to better integration of the upper limb into everyday activities.

Emotional intelligence is not only a social skill for human beings, but also a challenging research topic in human-computer interaction related to the ability to recognize particular emotional patterns of humans by machines. Studies have shown that virtual reality (VR) can trigger stronger and more specific emotional reactivity in users than other visual/audio media. Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) usually suffer from social impairments, such as challenges in emotion perception and emotion expression. A smart VR eHealth system that carefully triggers specific emotional reactions and detects the patterns in children with ASD can help with early screening, intervention, and emotional regulation. This paper proposes a VR gaming system that makes use of psychophysiological sensor signals, in-game performance and responses, stressor mini-games to detect different emotional reactivity patterns, and dynamically changes the game scene according to the current emotional status. This is a framework of a long-term study, where the ultimate goal is to develop a VR system with real-time feedback to assist early screening and diagnosis of ASD.

Spatial neglect is a common and severe cognitive consequence of stroke, yet there is currently no effective rehabilitation tool. Virtual Reality (VR) telerehabilitation tools have the potential to provide multisensory and enjoyable therapies and remotely monitor adherence without the presence of a therapist at all times. Researchers and industry need to better understand end-user perspectives about these technologies to ensure these are acceptable and, ultimately, optimize adherence and efficacy. This study aims to explore end-user perspectives on the use of self-administered VR for spatial neglect in a university environment to identify barriers and facilitators prior to extending its use remotely as a telerehabilitation tool. We used a mixed-method design including focus groups, self-administered questionnaires and interviews with stroke survivors (N = 7), their carers (N = 3) and stroke clinicians (N = 6). End-user perspectives identified clarity of instructions, equipment (cost, available resources) and for some, level of experience with technology as barriers of use. Perceived facilitators were performance feedback, engagement and enjoyment, and psychological benefits associated with self-administered VR telerehabilitation. Overall, end-users were positive and interested in using VR telerehabilitation for spatial neglect. These perspectives enabled us to produce practical recommendations to inform development, enhance engagement and uptake of VR telerehabilitation and inform future studies. Z8 0

Although virtual reality (VR) simulation training has gained prominence, review studies to inform instructors and educators on the use of this technology in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are still scarce. This article presents various VR-supported instructional design practices in K-12 (primary and secondary) and higher education in terms of participants' characteristics, methodological features, and pedagogical uses in alignment with applications, technological equipment, and instructional design strategies. During the selection and screening process, 41 (n = 41) studies published in the period 2009-2019 were included for a detailed analysis and synthesis. This article's results indicate that many studies were focused on the description and evaluation of the appropriateness or the effectiveness of applied teaching practices with VR support. Several studies pointed out improvements in learning outcomes or achievements, positive perspectives on user experience, and perceived usability. Nevertheless, fewer studies were conducted to measure students' learning performance. The current scoping review aims to encourage instructional designers to develop innovative VR applications or integrate existing approaches in their teaching procedures. It will also inform researchers to conduct further research for an in-depth understanding of the educational benefits of immersive-VR applications in STEM fields. Z8 0

This paper proposes a kinesthetic-tactile fusion feedback system based on virtual interaction. Combining the results of human fingertip deformation characteristics analysis and an upper limb motion mechanism, a fingertip tactile feedback device and an arm kinesthetic feedback device are designed and analyzed for blind instructors. In order to verify the effectiveness of the method, virtual touch experiments are established through the mapping relationship between the master-slave and virtual end. The results showed that the average recognition rate of virtual objects is 79.58%, and the recognition speed is improved by 41.9% compared with the one without force feedback, indicating that the kinesthetic-tactile feedback device can provide more haptic perception information in virtual feedback and improve the recognition rate of haptic perception. Z8 0

Wireless virtual reality (VR) is expected to be a technology that revolutionizes human interaction and perceived media, where the quality of experience (QoE) is an important indicator to measure user service perception. However, existing schemes only consider general and time-invariant QoE optimization, which may suffer performance degradation. Moreover, it is also necessary to ensure the fairness of the individual user's performance in wireless VR. To address these challenges, we employ digital twin technology to investigate a max-min QoE-optimal problem for wireless VR systems in this paper. Specifically, we maximize the QoE of the worst-case head-mounted displays (HDMs) client, where the QoE model is the linear weighting combination of video quality, service delay, and energy efficiency. The formulated optimization problem is characterized by multidimensional control, which jointly optimizes model selection, transmit power, computation time, and GPU-cycle frequency. Due to the mixed combinatorial features of the optimization problem, we give a low-complexity algorithm design by decoupling the optimization variables. Notably, we first obtain the allocation of the transmit power by employing the generalized fractional programming theory and the Lagrangian dual decomposition, followed by attaining the optimal allocation of GPU-cycle frequency in VR mode is derived by the proposed adaptive modified harmony search algorithm, and finally achieve the computation time by the barrier method. Meanwhile, we devise a greedy-style heuristic algorithm for mode selection. In the simulation, three baseline schemes are established as comparisons to assess the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. Meanwhile, the simulation results manifest that the proposed algorithms have good convergence performance and better increase the QoE of the DT-enabled wireless VR system compared to benchmark solutions.

Spatial judgments are important for many real-world tasks in engineering and scientific visualization. While existing research provides evidence that higher levels of display and interaction fidelity in virtual reality systems offer advantages for spatial understanding, few investigations have focused on small-scale spatial judgments or employed experimental tasks similar to those used in real-world applications. After an earlier study that considered a broad analysis of various spatial understanding tasks, we present the results of a follow-up study focusing on small-scale spatial judgments. In this research, we independently controlled field of regard, stereoscopy, and head-tracked rendering to study their effects on the performance of a task involving precise spatial inspections of complex 3D structures. Measuring time and errors, we asked participants to distinguish between structural gaps and intersections between components of 3D models designed to be similar to real underground cave systems. The overall results suggest that the addition of the higher fidelity system features support performance improvements in making small-scale spatial judgments. Through analyses of the effects of individual system components, the experiment shows that participants made significantly fewer errors with either an increased field of regard or with the addition of head-tracked rendering. The results also indicate that participants performed significantly faster when the system provided the combination of stereo and head-tracked rendering.

Constructional ability is a necessary part of everyday functioning for adults and children alike. In children, the need for adequate levels of constructional ability is evident during both recreational and school activities. PIayCubes is a dynamic tool that supports monitoring a variety of the perceptual-motor processes needed while children perform constructional tasks. PIayCubes is based on ActiveCube (AC), an electronic, Lego-like tangible user interface (TUI) designed to construct three-dimensional (3D) objects in both the physical and virtual realms simultaneously. In this paper we explore PIayCubes' use as a concrete, ecologically valid tool which reveals the dynamic functional processes underlying constructional ability among typically developed children. Our paper describes the PIayCubes interface including its interactive playground virtual setting, the motivation for the study, the experimental design and results to date. We conclude that, despite several technical limitations, the PIayCubes system and playground apparatus tasks appear to be sensitive to differences in children constructional abilities while presenting an engaging and enjoyable assessment tool.

This paper presents an analysis of space perception and how visual cues, such as landmarks and sound, are perceived and impact people's behaviour while exploring a given outdoor space. The primary goal of the research is to investigate how auditory sensations and visual stimuli influence people's behaviour in outdoor built environments. Our technique compares people's perception of the built environment in different conditions: the real world and a replicated virtual world. As a case study, a university campus was used, and four experi-mental conditions were designed. The study followed a between-subjects design, and the data collection included gaze data acquired from an eye-tracking device as well as self-reports. The study concludes that sound influences human behaviour in such settings. More specifically conclusions are that: i) human behaviour in virtual repli-cations of the real space, including both visual and sound stimuli, is tendentially more similar to human behaviour in the real world than in simulations omitting sound; and ii) there is a difference in human behaviour when people explore the same virtually replicated outdoor space, by varying the presence of sound. This study is particularly useful for researchers working on the comparison between human behaviour in virtual and real environments, related to visual and sound stimuli.

Recent studies have demonstrated that people show social reactions when interacting with human-like virtual agents. For instance, human users behave in a socially desirable way, show increased cooperation or apply human-like communication. It has, however, so far not been tested whether users are prone to mimic the artificial agent's behavior although this is a widely cited phenomenon of human human communication that seems to be especially indicative of the sociality of the situation. We therefore conducted an experiment, in which we analyzed whether humans reciprocate an agent's smile. In a between-subjects design, 104 participants conducted an 8-min small-talk conversation with an agent that either did not smile, showed occasional smiles, or displayed frequent smiles. Results show that although smiling did not have a distinct impact on the evaluation of the agent, the human interaction partners themselves smiled longer when the agent was smiling. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Simulating realistic interactions between virtual characters has been of interest to research communities for years, and is particularly important to automatically populate virtual environments. This problem requires to accurately understand and model how humans interact, which can be difficult to assess. In this context, Virtual Reality (VR) is a powerful tool to study human behaviour, especially as it allows assessing conditions which are both ecological and controlled. While VR was shown to allow realistic collision avoidance adaptations, in the frame of the ecological theory of perception and action, interactions between walkers can not solely be characterized through motion adaptations but also through the perception processes involved in such interactions. The objective of this paper is therefore to evaluate how different VR setups influence gaze behaviour during collision avoidance tasks between walkers. To this end, we designed an experiment involving a collision avoidance task between a participant and another walker (real confederate or virtual character). During this task, we compared both the participant's locomotion and gaze behaviour in a real environment and the same situation in different VR setups (including a CAVE, a screen and a Head-Mounted Display). Our results show that even if some quantitative differences exist, gaze behaviour is qualitatively similar between VR and real conditions. Especially, gaze behaviour in VR setups including a HMD is more in line with the real situation than the other setups. Furthermore, the outcome on motion adaptations confirms previous work, where collision avoidance behaviour is qualitatively similar in VR and real conditions. In conclusion, our results show that VR has potential for qualitative analysis of locomotion and gaze behaviour during collision avoidance. This opens perspectives in the design of new experiments to better understand human behaviour, in order to design more realistic virtual humans.

Sound localization is a crucial aspect of human auditory perception. VR (virtual reality) technologies provide immersive audio platforms that allow human listeners to experience natural sounds based on their ability to localize sound. However, the simulations of sound generated by these platforms, which are based on the general head-related transfer function (HRTF), often lack accuracy in terms of individual sound perception and localization due to significant individual differences in this function. In this study, we aimed to investigate the disparities between the perceived locations of sound sources by users and the locations generated by the platform. Our goal was to determine if it is possible to train users to adapt to the platform-generated sound sources. We utilized the Microsoft HoloLens 2 virtual platform and collected data from 12 subjects based on six separate training sessions arranged in 2 weeks. We employed three modes of training to assess their effects on sound localization, in particular for studying the impacts of multimodal error, visual, and sound guidance in combination with kinesthetic/postural guidance, on the effectiveness of the training. We analyzed the collected data in terms of the training effect between pre- and post-sessions as well as the retention effect between two separate sessions based on subject-wise paired statistics. Our findings indicate that, as far as the training effect between pre- and post-sessions is concerned, the effect is proven to be statistically significant, in particular in the case wherein kinesthetic/postural guidance is mixed with visual and sound guidance. Conversely, visual error guidance alone was found to be largely ineffective. On the other hand, as far as the retention effect between two separate sessions is concerned, we could not find any meaningful statistical implication on the effect for all three error guidance modes out of the 2-week session of training. These findings can contribute to the improvement of VR technologies by ensuring they are designed to optimize human sound localization abilities.

The increasing availability of advanced but affordable technologies is providing interesting opportunities for the development of ICT applications for the social good. In particolar, the upcoming diffusion of advanced Head Mounted Displays dedicated to the consumer market has lead to a great interest in the design and production of dedicated media, like e.g. immersive movies and Virtual Reality applications. These devices use stereoscopic visualization to enhance the sense of realism and immersivity in a virtual scene. However, a correct stereoscopic visualization requires an accurate consideration of different parameters related to the production and display stages. In this paper, we analyze the stereoscopic setup of a Head Mounted Display, in order to highlight its main visualization characteristics in relation with the known issues and requirements for a correct stereoscopic visualization, and to establish some preliminary guidelines for an optimal creation of stereoscopic contents.

It is generally understood that virtual reality simulations have a high computational cost. Hence, they rarely can reduce completely all the incoherence within the cross-modal sensory outputs provided. The main research approaches to date have consisted in technically reducing possible mismatches, however minimal research has been conducted so as to analyse their influence on human capabilities. Thus, the objective of this study is to provide further insights to the designers of virtual reality about the negative influence of simulation lags and interesting design implications. To clearly show this, we have investigated the importance of coherent sensory feedback by incorporating time delays and spatial misalignments in the feedback provided by the simulation as a response to participantA ' s actions to mimic computationally expensive environments. We have also evaluated these misalignments considering two typical interaction setups. In particular, the sensory mismatches influence has been assessed in human factors, such as the sense of presence, task performance and delay perception. Our experimental results indicate that the closer the interaction conditions are to real configurations the higher the sensory requirements are regarding accuracy. The implications of this study offer the designer guidelines to prioritise the reduction of those mismatches in the sensory cues provided depending on the simulations goals.

The development of interface technologies is driven by the goal of making interaction more positive through natural action-control mappings. In Virtual Reality (VR), the entire body is potentially involved for interaction, using such mappings with a maximum of degrees of freedom. The downside is the increase in interaction complexity, which can dramatically influence interface design. A cognitive perspective on detailed aspects of interaction patterns is lacking in common interface design guidelines, although it can be helpful to make this complexity controllable and, thus, make interaction behavior predictable. In the present study, the distinction between grounding, embodiment, and situatedness (the GES framework) is applied to organize aspects of interactions and to compare them with each other. In two experiments, zooming into or out of emotional pictures through changes of arm span was examined in VR. There are qualitatively different aspects during such an interaction: i) perceptual aspects caused by zooming are fundamental for human behavior (Grounding: closer objects appear bigger) and ii) aspects of gestures correspond to the physical characteristics of the agents (Embodiment: little distance of hands signals little or, in contrast, "creating more detail"). The GES-framework sets aspects of Grounding against aspects of Embodiment, thus allowing to predict human behavior regarding these qualitatively different aspects. For the zooming procedure, the study shows that Grounding can overrule Embodiment in interaction design. Thus, we propose GES as a cognitive framework that can help to inform interaction guidelines for user interface design in VR. Z8 0

Medical education escape rooms are emerging as a viable technological resource for pedagogy-first, learner-centric educational activities. This work presents the evaluation results of the first flipped classroom implementation in medical education, thus utilizing a mobile-driven augmented reality (AR) escape room. A total of 21 first-year medical students attended a flipped classroom educational activity that aimed to acclimate the students with the workflows of basic life support. Knowledge acquisition and user perceptions were evaluated. Knowledge acquisition was evaluated with an ad hoc relevant instrument at three timepoints: (a) baseline at recruitment, (b) preclass after students had prepared for the episode, and (c) after class. Learner perceptions about the activity and the AR escape room were recorded at the activity's end using a previously designed evaluation instrument. The results demonstrated sufficient knowledge acquisition only after completing the whole educational activity, while learners found the experience interesting, and the AR escape room challenging, thus reflecting an activity that was well formulated in structure and content. The challenges identified were the limited out of class collaboration capacity of the digital application and the highly gamified approach that at points counteracted the educational scope of the activity. Overall, these positive initial results demonstrate the potential of collaborative, escape based, activities for self-directed, learner-centric medical education.

The early identification of the optimal concept is a critical task of the design process in order to increase the chances of satisfying customers. The challenging aspect of the approach proposed in this work relies in the quality evaluation of virtual prototypes of new industrial products (i.e. concept designs) by adopting a statistical procedure previously applied to service industries. Following this approach.. the optimal concept design is defined at the end of a process consisting of five phases: identification of the quality elements of the concept design, classification of the quality elements, generation and quality evaluation of product concepts and, finally, definition of the optimal concept. Currently, virtual reality (VR) environment offers the opportunity to evaluate the characteristics of different virtual prototypes by involving experts and/or customers, overcoming the need for several physical prototypes. On the other side, the dynamics of simulation and the stereoscopic visualization in VR environment provides a more realistic and impressive interaction with virtual prototypes than in CAD environment. The proposed methodology is fully exploited through two case studies: the choice of the optimal design for a traditional Neapolitan coffee maker, addressed by the Italian designer Riccardo Dalisi, and for a subassembly of a new minicar. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

We are investigating face, hand and body expressions to be applied to avatars to improve their communication capabilities and enrich and facilitate their perception by users of a virtual environment. We support the idea that avatars have to be designed in such a way as to express state of mind, mood and emotions that are easily understood. We report on our work based on obtaining inspiration from the world of theatre. In this perspective Commedia dell'Arte and Noh theatre have been the focus of our attention. The outcome of this work is a visual language for avatars made up of postures, gestures and appearances.

The coupling between perception and action has seldom been explored in sophisticated motor behaviour such as 3D pointing. In this study, we investigated how 3D pointing accuracy, measured by a depth estimation task, could be affected by the target appearing in different visual eccentricities. Specifically, we manipulated the visual eccentricity of the target and its depth in virtual reality. Participants wore a head-mounted-display with an integrated eye-tracker and docked a cursor into a target. We adopted a within-participants factorial design with three variables. The first variable is Eccentricity: the location of the target on one of five horizontal eccentricities (left far periphery, left near periphery, foveal, right near periphery and right far periphery). The second variable is Depth at three levels and the third variable is Feedback Loop with two levels: open/closed. Eccentricity is refactored into Motion Correspondence between the starting location of the cursor and the target location with four levels: periphery to fovea, fovea to periphery, periphery to periphery, fovea to fovea. The results showed that the pointing accuracy is modulated mainly by the target locations rather than the initial locations of the effector (hand). Visible feedback during pointing improved performance.

We sought to better understand how autonomous vehicle (AV) communication strategies impact human road users' perceptions. More specifically, we explored the impact of different external human-machine interface (eHMI) designs on task load, comfort, trust, and acceptance. To accomplish this, we created virtual reality (VR) scenarios where human participants interacted with AVs in biking, driving, and pedestrian simulators. Participants were brought back after initial testing to explore acclimation and learning effects. eHMI designs included a text-based grille eHMI, a text-based roof eHMI, a text-based driver-side door eHMI, anon-textual LED windshield strip eHMI, and a non-textual side mirror arrow eHMI. The presence of an eHMI was the strongest positive predictor of comfort, trust, and acceptance outcomes in the statistical models when controlling for all other variables. There was a clear divide between text-based eHMIs and non-text eHMIs with text-based eHMIs experiencing better perception scores. The LED Windshield experienced the worst perception scores. There were perception acclimation effects detected which were most notable for task load (which decreased over time) and comfort (which increased over time). Perception scores for the different eHMI designs tended to cluster over time. However, the acclimation effects had less of an impact than the presence of an eHMI. Perception out-comes had weaker relationships with participant characteristics than with AV character-istics. Results suggest that eHMI presence and design, AV behavior, and acclimation are most impactful in terms of perceptions. (c) 2023 Periodical Offices of Chang'an University. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC -ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

Mixed-reality environments introduce innovative human-computer interaction paradigms assisted by enhanced visual content presentation which require from end-users to perform excessive cognitive tasks related to visual attention, search, processing, and comprehension. In such visually enriched interaction realms, individual differences in perception and visual information processing might affect users' behaviour and immersion, given that such effects are known to exist in conventional computer environments, like desktop or mobile. In an attempt to shed light on whether, how, and why such effects persist within mixed-reality contexts, we conducted a between-subjects eye-tracking study (N=73) in which users interacted within either a conventional or a mixed reality technological context, and adopted an accredited cognitive style theory to interpret the derived results. Analysis of results yielded that mixed-reality interaction realms amplified the effects of human cognitive style towards game-specific interaction behaviour and visual behaviour. Findings further support the added value of incorporating human cognitive factors in both design and run-time, aiming to provide adaptive and personalised features to end-users within mixed-reality interaction contexts. Such practical implications are also discussed in this paper. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Designing highly realistic and immersive virtual reality (VR) environments has become crucial for enhancing the user experience within human-machine interactions. However, there is limited research regarding the utilization, impact, and influence of different visualization techniques in VR concerning cognition and behavior. This experimental study compares two scenarios: a low-realism (LR) scenario with non-diegetic visual elements and a high-realism (HR) scenario with diegetic visual elements. The experimental context pertains to young jobseekers' training and skills development in the construction industry. The findings indicate that an HR scenario contributes to enhancing memory but may reduce perceived usability if a proper feedback system related to diegetic elements is not implemented. Furthermore, an LR scenario can foster effective immersion if the diegetic narrative remains consistent and a high level of interaction is present, enabling a more inclusive design and making learning more accessible to individuals requiring a lower level of detail. Despite the limitation of a limited number of participants, the results aim to contribute to the establishment of visualization strategies in VR for vocational education and training.

In this paper, we design and evaluate a novel form of visually-simulated haptic feedback cue for communicating weight in robot teleoperation. We propose that a visuo-proprioceptive cue results from inconsistencies created between the user's visual and proprioceptive senses when the robot's movement differs from the movement of the user's input. In a user study where participants teleoperate a six-DoF robot arm, we demonstrate the feasibility of using such a cue for communicating weight in four telemanipulation tasks to enhance user experience and task performance.

The importance of Human-Centered Design (HCD) drives research toward the development of new UIs (User Interfaces) in order to predict human interaction with products at the early design stages. Virtual Reality (VR) allows carrying out usability tests on virtual prototypes to investigate users' cognitive and affective response. Application problems regard with the reproduction of synaesthesia qualities in order to make the information processing similar to the one obtained by real sensory stimulation. While visualization technologies seem to be mature enough to overcome the above mentioned limitation, tactile devices are still far from properly simulating materials properties. In this context, the present work aims at structuring and applying a systematic approach to conceive, define and develop a novel VR-based technology, called I-perTouch. The goal is to stimulate the skin mechanoreceptors to generate a meaningful tactile sensation about materials softness, friction and roughness. The system can be also integrated with imaging and sound technologies to create a multi-sensorial product experience. The preliminary architecture results from the analysis of human tactile perception and the benchmark of available simulation devices and techniques. This paper contributes to discuss current issues of existing VR-based technologies in supporting HCD applications and to address technical developments toward the creation of a reliable system for texture perception.

Augmented Reality (AR) teleconferencing aims to enable remotely separated users to meet with each other in their own physical spaces as if they are face-to-face. Among all solutions, the video-avatar-based approach has the advantage of balancing fidelity and the sense of co-presence using easy-to-setup devices, including only a camera and an AR Head-Mounted Display (HMD). However, non-verbal cues indicating "who is looking at whom" are always lost or misdelivered in multiparty teleconferencing experiences. To make users aware of such non-verbal cues, existing solutions explore screen-based visualizations, incorporate additional hardware, or alter to use a virtual avatar representation. However, they lack immersion, are less feasible for everyday usage due to complex installations, or lose the fidelity of remote users' authentic appearances. In this paper, we decompose such attention awareness into the awareness of being looked at and the awareness of attention between other users and address them in a decoupled process. Specifically, through a user study, we first find an unobtrusive and reasonable layout "Attention Circle" to retarget a looker's head gaze to the one being looked at. We then conduct the second user study to find an effective and intuitive "rotatable 2.5D video avatar with attention thumbnail" visualization to aid users in being aware of other users' attention. With the design choice distilled from the studies, we implement A3RT, a proof-of-concept prototype system that empowers attention-aware 2.5D-video-avatar-based multiparty AR teleconferencing in an easy, everyday setup. Ablation and usability studies on the prototype verify the effectiveness of our proposed components and the full system.

Development of the Singaporean transport network has been fairly utilitarian in design and much can still be done to enhance pedestrian comfort. This research aims to better understand the preferences of pedestrians in Singapore with respect to different factors that influence comfort. Based on the many frameworks for assessing pedestrian perception of urban design qualities, a digital preference survey was created and conducted with 300 participants. From the results of the survey, several design recommendations were drawn. Following this, a parametric model was developed to create prototypes of various recommended designs and to aid further studies in the form of a virtual reality experiment.

Augmented assembly (AA) is being gradually incorporated into manual assembly owing to its abundant instruction forms, high efficiency of information transmission, and robust interactivity. However, a lack of a unified description model for assembly information and irregular instruction design forms leads to difficulties in instruction authoring and generation, inconveniences for data management, and low system portability. To address these issues, this paper presents an information-integration and instruction-authoring method for AA systems. First, design guidelines for the AA instructions are established with the aim of minimizing the user's cognitive load. After that, the designing of visual elements is performed based on the design guidelines, and the information model of the assembly information and instructions is built using Unified Modeling Language. Based on Extensible Markup Language files and Unity3D engine, a standard and rapid development process is presented for deploying the AA system to Hololens2 devices. The usability and replicability of the designed system are demonstrated, and a user study is carried out. The user's task performance is evaluated using completion time and errors as metrics. The NASA-task load index scale is used to estimate the user's workload, and the Likert scale reflects the user's subjective perception of the system and instructions. The results show that the proposed AA instructions can effectively improve the user's task performance; reduce their workload, especially the cognitive load; and improve their assembly experience. Z8 0

Background: Social influences are important modulators of pain. Experimental studies demonstrated analgesic effects of explicit social support. As digital health care gains importance, this study investigated influences of social support by virtual characters and their perceived agency in virtual reality on pain.Methods: In a within-subjects design, participants experienced painful heat stimuli in VR. Either a virtual char-acter provided verbal support prior to the pain stimuli or not (support vs. no support condition). In addition, participants were instructed that a real human (avatar condition) or a computer script (virtual agent) controlled the virtual character. However, in both conditions, the virtual character was computer-controlled. Main outcome measures were pain ratings and physiological pain responses.Results: Virtual verbal support affected physiological responses in terms of "stress buffering", but not pain ratings. The agency manipulation was successful as the avatar yielded higher ratings of perceived human-likeness, helpfulness and realism compared to the virtual agent. However, agency of the character did not affect pain responses.Conclusions: This study revealed that virtual verbal support positively influences physiological pain responses independently of perceived agency. The findings have important clinical implications as virtual interactions and digital health interventions are increasingly relevant for pain treatment. Z8 0

We propose Parallel Ping-Ping, a system that realizes "Parallel Embodiment", the experience of a single user controlling multiple bodies simultaneously. The user plays ping-pong by controlling 2 robot arms using a Virtual Reality (VR) controller, while looking at 2 tables through a Head Mounted Display (HMD). The computer constantly calculates the ball trajectory and the motion for the robot arm to hit the balls back automatically through color cameras. Based on this calculation, the system integrates the motion of the user's controller, maintaining the sense of agency of the robot arms even though single user plays ping-pong with two opponents. In addition, the user's view through the HMD is automatically switched to the appropriate table according to the calculated position and direction, so that the user can perceive both tables' situation smoothly. We exhibited a three-day Parallel Ping-Pong demonstration and surveyed 142 participants about their perception while controlling multiple bodies. In this paper, we introduce the Parallel Ping-Pong system framework and the insights from the survey of demonstration. We also discuss the design implication for Parallel Embodiment based on these results.

This paper introduces the schemes of remote wiring interactions in an online control laboratory using an HTML5-based virtual 3-D interface. Although virtual laboratories have drawn increasing research attention in the last decade, wiring practice, which is a crucial part of experimentation, is normally neglected. In this paper, a practice including 3-D modeling, HTML5-based rendering, and control algorithm design is implemented for the interactive virtual wiring based on the Networked Control System Laboratory (NCSLab) framework. The wiring practice is combined with control algorithm design, which is already realized in NCSLab, where users are allowed to customize algorithms using MATLAB/Simulink real-time workshop. Apart from remotely implementing the control algorithm, the 3-D virtual wiring process must be completed correctly before the online experiments can proceed properly. The proposed wiring laboratory is evaluated in practical teaching, with both students' performance and perception considered. The conclusions derived from the report show that the 3-D virtual wiring interactions make virtual experimentation complete for simulating a real case, as well as providing an opportunity for a clearer comprehension of control systems.

With the development of human body perception technology and virtual interactive experience, this technology has also been applied more in the field of driver education. However, the technology is not able to achieve 100 % real simulation in the process of simulating driving movement. In order to solve this problem, the study proposes to improve it by using the body sensing control wash-out filtering algorithm, and at the same time, further optimize it by genetic algorithm, and then carry out a study on the virtual interactive driving education game based on the improved technology. The proposed improved algorithm's performance comparison results validated that it achieved the highest accuracy rate of 96 %, a final accuracy rate of 92 %, a final loss value of 1.99 %, a running time of 6.5 s, and a mean squared error of 3.8 %, all of which surpass the compared algorithm. After conducting experiments on the actual effectiveness of the designed driving education game, the maximum deviation between the simulated X-direction displacement curve of the game and the actual value was found to be 0.06 m, which outperformed the comparative experimental group. Additionally, both the angular displacement curve and perceived acceleration were the most accurate. In summary, the proposed virtual interactive driving education game based on human perception can more accurately reproduce the real scene during the driving process, providing users with better learning conditions.

Recent studies have highlighted Virtual Environments (VEs) as feasible tools for conducting safety sign research. Conversely, guidelines on how to conduct such studies with workplace safety signs and older workers, is scarce. The nature of this study is justified by the fact that, as workers grow older, their ability to comply with such signs is adversely affected by age-related deficits. Therefore, the present pilot study sought to assess the quality of a VE prototype that was specifically designed to conduct safety sign research with middle-aged working adults (50-65 yrs). Using a work-related context, and a sample of twelve workers, the study consisted of two key moments: 1) to examine the workers' interaction, by evaluating their behavioral compliance; and 2) to analyze their overall user experience, by assessing their subjective perceptions. In order to undergo such an evaluation, the following VE interaction issues were addressed: simulator sickness, sense of presence, level of engagement and hazard perception. Both behavioral and subjective data were gathered from three sources: observation, post-hoc questionnaires, and semi-structured interviews. Results reveal that: 1) the VE's workplace safety signs were ineffective in promoting behavioral compliance; and 2) despite the occurrence of some simulator sickness, overall, participants had high levels of presence and engagement, as well as correctly perceived the VE's hazard. In conclusion, the VE prototype proved to be adequate for the study's purpose. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Augmented reality games have created a paradigm shift on social patterns and spatial experience, particularly in urban environments. The impact of space experience during gameplay is underpinned by the interrelations between systems and rules in gaming and urban theories. Augmented reality games such as Pokemon Go (PG) have activated the social pattern, pedestrian movement and public engagement in urban space by overlaying the data of augmented space on urban space. Current studies suggested that spatial engagement through the augmented reality can inform alternative design approaches within the public realm. This present study particularly builds on the premise that augmented reality influences the use of dormant space and creates accidental gathering spaces during PG gameplay. Taking Desa Park City, an urban residential area that is activated by PG as a case study, this paper examined the interface of physical space, augmented reality and the users engagement of space. Observations of 33 activated urban spaces are mapped to compare the spatial qualities activated by the augmented space. The findings suggested that the algorithm of PG frames the engagement of users within the urban space, which are linked to the settings of the physical space such as large scale structures, seating, accessibility and level of privacy. The paper argued that the relationship between real, augmented and perceptual space offers alternative user experiences and social patterns in engaging with urban space, contributing potential design strategies to activate otherwise dormant urban spaces and its potential to unify people from different culture group through the global universal perception of space. It provided an alternative method to study the social pattern of urban space based on the algorithm of game, which can be used to observe different types of space and culture interlaced with virtual space.

Directivity and gain in microphone array systems for hearing aids or hearable devices allow users to acoustically enhance the information of a source of interest. This source is usually positioned directly in front. This feature is called acoustic beamforming. The current study aimed to improve users' interactions with beamforming via a virtual prototyping approach in immersive virtual environments (VEs). Eighteen participants took part in experimental sessions composed of a calibration procedure and a selective auditory attention voice-pairing task. Eight concurrent speakers were placed in an anechoic environment in two virtual reality (VR) scenarios. The scenarios were a purely virtual scenario and a realistic 360 degrees audio-visual recording. Participants were asked to find an individual optimal parameterization for three different virtual beamformers: (i) head-guided, (ii) eye gaze-guided, and (iii) a novel interaction technique called dual beamformer, where head-guided is combined with an additional hand-guided beamformer. None of the participants were able to complete the task without a virtual beamformer (i.e., in normal hearing condition) due to the high complexity introduced by the experimental design. However, participants were able to correctly pair all speakers using all three proposed interaction metaphors. Providing superhuman hearing abilities in the form of a dual acoustic beamformer guided by head and hand movements resulted in statistically significant improvements in terms of pairing time, suggesting the task-relevance of interacting with multiple points of interests.

In the manufacturing industry, Augmented Reality (AR) has shown significant potential in enhancing operators' capabilities while performing inspection and assembly activities. However, the augmented visualization of virtual models on physical components can present challenges and potential misunderstandings, as the visualization mode greatly influences the perception of components and the amount of information received. This study investigates the impact of rendering techniques on user performance during industrial assembly inspection tasks. In particular, a set of rendering techniques, suitable for industrial AR applications, have been selected and implemented through a dedicated AR tool. The selected AR rendering techniques have been compared, in terms of qualitative and quantitative metrics, in order to test their efficiency and effectiveness for industrial assembly inspection activities. 17 domain experts and 33 representative users have been involved in the experimental study which outcomes reveal that the rendering techniques play a significant role in assisting operators for identifying design discrepancies in industrial products. Furthermore, a correlation has been observed between the two AR rendering techniques best suited to support industrial inspection activities and the types of assembly errors detected.

BackgroundUtilization of Virtual Reality haptic simulation (VRHS) to aid in the training of various pre-clinical skills is of recent interest. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of VRHS in restorative dentistry on the learning experiences and perceptions of dental students.MethodsAn interventional study design was utilized to recruit third year students. All participants provided informed consents and were randomly divided into two groups. Group 1: Initially performed a Class I cavity preparation with the VRHS, followed by the same exercise using the phantom head/ acrylic typodont teeth in a conventional simulation environment (CSE). Group 2: Initially performed Class I preparations in a CSE, followed by the same exercise using VRHS. Both groups performed the exercises on a lower right first molar. To understand students' perception, an online questionnaire was circulated. Data analysis involved Chi-square tests, independent t-tests and Mann-Whitney U-tests using the R statistical environment package.ResultsA total of 23 dental students participated in this study. Although student's perceptions were similar in both groups, a strong agreement that VRHS training might be used to supplement standard pre-clinical training was noted. Advancements to the VRHS hardware and software are required to bridge the gap and provide a smooth transition to clinics.ConclusionNovice dental students generally perceived VRHS as a useful tool for enhancing their manual dexterity. Dental institutions should endorse virtual reality technology with caution, ensuring a planned integration into the curriculum to optimize benefit. Feedback is pivotal to effective learning in simulation-based education, and the triangulation of feedback could serve as a powerful aid to maximize the learning experience.

Background: Several studies have found a positive effect on the learning curve as well as the improvement of basic psychomotor skills in the operating room after virtual reality training. Despite this, the majority of surgical and gynecological departments encounter hurdles when implementing this form of training. This is mainly due to lack of knowledge concerning the time and human resources needed to train novice surgeons to an adequate level. The purpose of this trial is to investigate the impact of instructor feedback regarding time, repetitions and self-perception when training complex operational tasks on a virtual reality simulator. Methods/Design: The study population consists of medical students on their 4th to 6th year without prior laparoscopic experience. The study is conducted in a skills laboratory at a centralized university hospital. Based on a sample size estimation 98 participants will be randomized to an intervention group or a control group. Both groups have to achieve a predefined proficiency level when conducting a laparoscopic salpingectomy using a surgical virtual reality simulator. The intervention group receives standardized instructor feedback of 10 to 12 min a maximum of three times. The control group receives no instructor feedback. Both groups receive the automated feedback generated by the virtual reality simulator. The study follows the CONSORT Statement for randomized trials. Main outcome measures are time and repetitions to reach the predefined proficiency level on the simulator. We include focus on potential sex differences, computer gaming experience and self-perception. Discussion: The findings will contribute to a better understanding of optimal training methods in surgical education. Trial Registration NCT01497782

Cross-modal communications, devoting to collaboratively delivering and processing audio, visual, and haptic signals, have gradually become the supporting technology for the emerging multi-modal services. However, the inevitable resource competitions among different modality signals as well as the unexpected packet loss and latency during transmission seriously affect quality of the received signals and end user's immersive experience (especially visual experience). To overcome these dilemmas, this paper proposes a cross-modal signal reconstruction strategy from the perspective of human's perceptual facts. It tries to guarantee visual signal quality by considering potential correlations among modalities when processing audio and haptic signals. On the one hand, a time-frequency masking-based audio-haptic redundancy elimination mechanism is designed by resorting to the similarity of audio-haptic characteristics and human's masking effects. On the other hand, based on the fact that non-visual perception can assist to form and enhance visual perception, an audio-haptic fused visual signal restoration (AHFVR) approach for handling the impaired and delayed visual signals is proposed. Experiments on a standard multi-modal database and a constructed practical platform evaluate the performance of the proposed perception-aware cross-modal signal reconstruction strategy.

PurposeThis study investigated undergraduate nursing students' perceptions of integrating virtual reality (VR) technology into a community nursing course, specifically home and environmental patient safety assessments.DesignThis study used a mixed-methods approach with an explanatory design.MethodsParticipants were recruited from a community health course. The students engaged in a VR simulation involving home visits using the vizHome platform. Quantitative and qualitative data were gathered using the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) and the System Usability Scale (SUS). Semi-structured interviews were conducted. Quantitative data were collected through Qualtrics and secure Zoom connections for the interviews. The data were analyzed with SPSS and MAXQDA.FindingsThe results indicated that participants perceived VR as valuable and easy to use for learning home assessment skills. The System Usability Scale (SUS) score revealed room for improvement. Technical limitations were identified as challenges that must be addressed to enhance the user experience.ConclusionParticipants acknowledged VR's potential to supplement traditional learning methods, providing safe and realistic exposure to diverse home environments. While VR was seen as beneficial, it was not considered a replacement for actual home visits in community nursing education.Clinical evidenceThis study provided clinical teaching evidence on the usability and student perceptions of VR in community courses.

Information transmission is a fundamental issue for human-computer interaction (HCI). Traditional interaction methods through visual, voice, and force haptics are very mature. However, the thermal perception (TP) for HCI is not studied in depth. This work proposes the TP-based information transmission framework. Firstly, we investigated the human hand-object contact heat transfer model and the temperature perception resolution of the hand and verified the feasibility of spatiotemporal temperature stimulation for information transmission by simulations. Then, a thermal device was designed, which utilized a 7x5 Peltier array, a water cooler, temperature sensors, and a control module to realize various static and dynamic spatiotemporal temperature patterns stimulation. Finally, we implemented a device prototype and recruited 20 subjects for experimental studies. The results show that the device can display various temperature patterns and provide thermal stimulations with high precision and speed. Furthermore, the subjects can accurately recognize different temperature values, icons, codes, and waveforms with their palm and fingers after a few times of training, which validates the TP-based information transmission method. Therefore, people can apply this method to interact with machines for information feedback, virtual reality, augmented reality, etc.

This paper presents foundations needed in designing an interface system for mobile robot teleoperation. For this purpose, Vicente's idea of ecological interface design (EID) is firstly reviewed, and a preliminary design of our teleoperation system is presented. Our system enables the naturalistic collaboration between a human and a robot's autonomy at the skill level by joining their respective perception-action cycles via virtually constructed visual 3D space, in which a human naturalistic reflex between stimulus and response is effectively utilized. Following the presentation of an overview of our system, discussions on the interface design for the teleoperation are done concentrating on its ecological aspects. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

We implemented a tabletop setup to explore Augmented Reality visualization. We call this setup augmented workspace". The user sits at the table and performs a manual task, guided by computer graphics overlaid onto his view. The setup serves as a testbed for developing the technology and for studying visual perception issues. The user wears a custom video-see-through head mounted display (HMD). Two color video cameras attached to the HMD provide a stereo view of the scene, a third video camera is added for tracking. The system runs at the full 30Hz video frame rate with a latency of about 0.1 sec, generating a stable augmentation with no apparent jitter visible in the composite images. Two SGI Visual Workstations provide the computing power for the system. In this paper we describe the Augmented Workspace system in more detail and discuss several design issues.

Virtual reality (VR) has been applied to many fields such as visualization, architecture, education, medical science, and sports simulation. Recent VR advancements allow direct manipulation of three-dimensional (3D) objects in interactive displays, but problems of inefficiency in movement due to inaccuracy in depth perception have been reported. As human interaction in virtual environments (VE) is being realized, factors that may affect depth perception and movement need to be addressed. This study investigated the effects of viewing angle, stereo viewing technology, and visual cues on hand movement performance in a 3D movement task. Ten right-handed participants performed continuous Fitts' pointing tasks using a computer mouse. Participants were asked to move a cursor to a target ball as quickly as possible. Fitts' law was employed to test effects to capture differences while the hand was moving in the 3D space under three factors, angle of declination, visual depth, and space cue and with varied index of difficulty (ID). Movement time (MT), error rate, and throughput (TP) were recorded as dependent variables. This study found significant effects of angle of declination, visual depth, space cue, and ID. This study investigated the effectiveness of hand movements in 3D environments for a further immersive VE using a two-dimensional (2D) mouse. Potential applications of this research include the design of interactive 3D display interfaces in which fast and accurate selection is required and the manipulation of 3D objects in 3D environments may be expected.

Autonomous, intelligent virtual agents (IVAs) are increasingly used commercially in essential information spaces such as healthcare. Existing IVA research has focused on microscale interaction patterns, for example those related to the usability of artificial intelligence systems. However, the sociotechnical patterns of users' information practices and their relationship with the design and adoption of IVAs have been largely understudied, especially when it comes to older adults, who stand to benefit greatly from IVAs. Yet, exposing such patterns may more meaningfully relate sociotechnical considerations to users' perceptions and attitudes toward the adoption of emerging technologies such as IVAs. We explore here the feasibility of information models in informing our understanding of how older adults may use and perceive an IVA. To do this, we relate the insights and findings from a case study of health information IVAs to the six stages of the information search process model (ISP). By doing this, we uncover sociotechnical issues pertinent to each stage of the ISP which help to better contextualize (older) users' interaction with intelligent interfaces such as IVAs. Through this, we argue for the potential of information models to inform the design of interactive user interfaces from a sociotechnical approach. Z8 0

A fundamental problem in optical, see-through augmented reality (AR) is characterizing how it affects the perception of spatial layout and depth. This problem is important because AR system developers need to both place graphics in arbitrary spatial relationships with real-world objects, and to know that users will perceive them in the same relationships. Furthermore, AR makes possible enhanced perceptual techniques that have no real-world equivalent, such as x-ray vision, where AR users are supposed to perceive graphics as being located behind opaque surfaces. This paper reviews and discusses techniques for measuring egocentric depth judgments in both virtual and augmented environments. It then describes a perceptual matching task and experimental design for measuring egocentric AR depth judgments at medium- and far-field distances of 5 to 45 meters. The experiment studied the effect of field of view, the x-ray vision condition, multiple distances, and practice on the task. The paper relates some of the findings to the well-known problem of depth underestimation in virtual environments, and further reports evidence for a switch in bias, from underestimating to overestimating the distance of AR-presented graphics, at similar to 23 meters. It also gives a quantification of how much more difficult the x-ray vision condition makes the task, and then concludes with ideas for improving the experimental methodology.

Displaying 3D objects on horizontal displays can cause problems in the way that the virtual scene is presented on the 2D surface; inappropriate choices in how 3D is represented can lead to distorted images and incorrect object interpretations. We present four experiments that test 3D perception. We varied projection geometry in three ways: type of projection (perspective/parallel), separation between the observer's point of view and the projection's center (discrepancy), and the presence of motion parallax (with/without parallax). Projection geometry had strong effects different for each task. Reducing discrepancy is desirable for orientation judgments, but not for object recognition or internal angle judgments. Using a fixed center of projection above the table reduces error and improves accuracy in most tasks. The results have far-reaching implications for the design of 3D views on tables, in particular, for multi-user applications where projections that appear correct for one person will not be perceived correctly by another.

In this study, we developed a new haptic-mixed reality intravenous (HMR-IV) needle insertion simulation system, providing a bimanual haptic interface integrated into a mixed reality system with programmable variabilities considering real clinical environments. The system was designed for nursing students or healthcare professionals to practice IV needle insertion into a virtual arm with unlimited attempts under various changing insertion conditions (e.g., skin: color, texture, stiffness, friction; vein: size, shape, location depth, stiffness, friction). To achieve accurate hand-eye coordination under dynamic mixed reality scenarios, two different haptic devices (Dexmo and Geomagic Touch) and a standalone mixed reality system (HoloLens 2) were integrated and synchronized through multistep calibration for different coordinate systems (real world, virtual world, mixed reality world, haptic interface world, HoloLens camera). In addition, force-profile-based haptic rendering proposed in this study was able to successfully mimic the real tactile feeling of IV needle insertion. Further, a global hand-tracking method, combining two depth sensors (HoloLens and Leap Motion), was developed to accurately track a haptic glove and simulate grasping a virtual hand with force feedback. We conducted an evaluation study with 20 participants (9 experts and 11 novices) to measure the usability of the HMR-IV simulation system with user performance under various insertion conditions. The quantitative results from our own metric and qualitative results from the NASA Task Load Index demonstrate the usability of our system.

This study aims to develop and evaluate an augmented reality microscope, "MicrosAR", for a middle school Science course, which was aimed for use both in and out of school, and to understand the users' perceptions about it. The study adopted design-based research to iteratively develop and evaluate the MicrosAR. Learning activities and working handouts in the application were grounded upon inquiry-based learning. The initial prototype was evaluated with 99 middle school students, as well as 18 preservice and six experienced in-service science teachers. The second prototype was then evaluated with 96 different middle school students. Accordingly, design changes were applied to the second prototype to present the final product development. Participants' experiences and perceptions were gathered through a self-developed, paper-based instrument after they practiced with the MicrosAR. The findings indicated that the MicrosAR was favored by and recognized as an effective and useful tool by the participants. The study highlighted the benefits that augmented reality technology and such an application can offer for learning purposes, and that it can be practiced at any place to deliver a "real" learning experience over virtual platforms, thereby saving costs, enhancing its availability, and improved learner interest.

As the number of profiles and user generated content online continues to grow, many accounts in time will inevitably belong to those that are deceased. Questions arise as what to do with content on these profiles when it becomes known that the owner of the profile has died. Additionally, many users have several profiles spread across various social networking sites. This project describes our efforts to create SADD - A Social Media Agent for the Detection of the Deceased. This tool aims to systematically identify social media accounts that may belong to a deceased user based on related posts from other users as well as changes in profile interaction. As part of this project, we present a basic framework and prototype for the program and include survey results about the perception of this type of tool which examine how users may wish to preserve online content. This project is a continuation of previous research related to virtual memorialization of web based and virtual world content and interaction.

The interdisciplinary literature on body image/body schema (BIBS), which is within the larger realm of embodied cognition, can provide HCI practitioners and theorists new ideas of and approaches to human perception and experience. In very brief terms, body image consists of perceptions, attitudes and beliefs pertaining to one's own body, whereas body schema is a system of sensory-motor capabilities that function, usually without awareness or the necessity of perceptual monitoring. The dynamic relationality and plasticity of BIBS open up different avenues for interaction design. An overview of six main ideas deriving from BIBS literature are enumerated, followed by a discussion of projects designed for chronic pain patients that demonstrate how these ideas can be adopted in interaction design processes as a perspective or attitude rather than a mere application of traditional methods. Through bridging HCI and BIBS theories and research, we can develop a holistic framework in which we design for and through embodied cognition.

Augmented reality (AR) is a promising tool to convey useful information at the place where it is needed. However, perceptual issues with augmented reality visualizations affect the estimation of distances and depth and thus can lead to critically wrong assumptions. These issues have been successfully investigated for video see-through modalities. Moreover, advanced visualization methods encoding depth information by displaying additional depth cues were developed. In this work, state-of-the-art visualization concepts were adopted for a projective AR setup. We conducted a user study to assess the concepts' suitability to convey depth information. Participants were asked to sort virtual cubes by using the provided depth cues. The investigated visualization concepts consisted of conventional Phong shading, a virtual mirror, depth-encoding silhouettes, pseudo-chromadepth rendering and an illustrative visualization using supporting line depth cues. Besides different concepts, we altered between a monoscopic and a stereoscopic display mode to examine the effects of stereopsis. Consistent results across variables show a clear ranking of examined concepts. The supporting lines approach and the pseudo-chromadepth rendering performed best. Stereopsis was shown to provide significant advantages for depth perception, while the current visualization technique had only little effect on investigated measures in this condition. However, similar results were achieved using the supporting lines and the pseudo-chromadepth concepts in a monoscopic setup. Our study showed the suitability of advanced visualization concepts for the rendering of virtual content in projective AR. Specific depth estimation results contribute to the future design and development of applications for these systems.

The aim of this paper is to demonstrate a novel design strategy for whole-body vibration based on user expectations which facilitates product design and the creation of plausible virtual environments. In both applications vibration parameters need to be derived from user expectations. Users can quantify their tactile expectations by rating a compact set of familiar sensory perceptual attributes (e.g. "tingling", "weak") without prior training. These ratings could be translated into parameters of vibration eliciting the expected perceptual attributes with the help of the relationship uncovered in a previous study. But are such attributes useful for the synthesis of whole-body vibration? To answer this question audio-visual-tactile vehicle scenes were recorded and rated for their elicited perceptual attributes. Sub-sequently scenes with vibration synthesized from these ratings were created. In a second experiment recorded scenes and synthesized scenes were rated for their perceived plausibility. Results show that plausibility ratings are extremely similar between recorded and synthesized vibration despite clear temporal spectral differences. These findings suggest that the plausibility illusion can he produced by presenting vibration which elicit the expected perceptual attributes. Thus, tactile perceptual attributes are sufficient to quantify user expectations from which plausible vibration can be systematically designed.

While research in the field of augmented reality (AR) has produced many innovative human-computer interaction techniques, some may produce physical and visual perceptions with unforeseen negative impacts on user performance. In a controlled human-subject study we investigated the effects of mismatched physical and visual perception on cognitive load and performance in an AR touching task by varying the physical fidelity (matching vs. non-matching physical shape) and visual mechanism (projector-based vs. HMD-based AR) of the representation. Participants touched visual targets on four corresponding physical-visual representations of a human head. We evaluated their performance in terms of touch accuracy, response time, and a cognitive load task requiring target size estimations during a concurrent (secondary) counting task. After each condition, participants completed questionnaires concerning mental, physical, and temporal demands; stress; frustration; and usability. Results indicated higher performance, lower cognitive load, and increased usability when participants touched a matching physical head-shaped surface and when visuals were provided by a projector from underneath.

Robots, equipped with powerful modern sensors and perception algorithms, have enormous potential to use what they perceive to provide enhanced situational awareness to their human teammates. One such type of information is changes that the robot detects in the environment that have occurred since a previous observation. A major challenge for sharing this information from the robot to the human is the interface. This includes how to properly aggregate change detection data, present it succinctly for the human to interpret, and allow the human to interact with the detected changes, e.g., to label, discard, or even to task the robot to investigate, for the purposes of enhanced situational awareness and decision making. In this work we address this challenge through the design of an augmented reality interface for aggregating, displaying, and interacting with changes detected by an autonomous robot teammate. We believe the outcomes of this work could have significant applications to Soldiers interacting with any type of high-volume, autonomously-generated information in Multi-Domain Operations.

In past years, as virtual reality (VR) technology is extensively developing, more and more people are using it in different fields. One of the fast developing fields in VR are exergames, a combination of physical exercise and game. With a goal to engage people in physical activity, VR exergames should look and feel good for users. Therefore, user interface (UI) in VR is important and has to be built in a way to enhance user experience. In this paper, ergometer is used together with VR rowing environment as VR exergame for a study aiming to explore possibilities of UI in VR. Accordingly, different metrics commonly used to quantify rowing action (e.g, speed and distance) were visualized. The visualizations that were created had different positioning (closer or further away from the player) and different level of complexity (more or less metrics shown as only numbers or in a gamified design). Participants (N = 27) during experiment for this study rowed four times in different conditions depending were metrics of the game were shown: 1) as a cockpit at the front of the rowing e.g, with gamified visualization of metrics; 2) as a coach boat that follows the player with gamified visualization of metrics on a screen; 3) as a cockpit at the front of the rowing e.g, with digital visualization of metrics; 4) as a coach boat that follows the player with digital visualization of metrics on a screen. Results show that level of UI complexity has a significant influence on readability, while positioning of UI elements significantly influences users' perception of support from system. Furthermore, participants preferred the opposite level of complexity depending on the position where metrics were shown.

Despite the benefits of virtual reality (VR), there has been limited exploration of how immersive VR can be implemented in interior design course content and how students perceive its use. For this study, we investigated how an immersive VR tool can be incorporated into the interior design studio to support second-year students' (n = 18) design process and outcomes and examined its perceived usability (i.e., measured as usefulness, ease of use, enjoyment, and intention to use) for accessible space design. We also explored VR's impact on advancing the interaction with space, understanding spatial information and problem-solving (PS), and how students accept the use of this technology. The students used immersive VR throughout the design process for one semester and then participated in a questionnaire. We found that immersive VR is helpful by enhancing students' interaction with the designed space, developing better spatial understanding, and advancing PS. VR was also perceived to be highly enjoyable and moderately improved job performance but was slightly less easy to use. Participants showed a high intention to utilize VR, and spatial interaction and perceived enjoyment were significantly associated with that intention. Our findings suggest that immersive VR has potential benefits for teaching and learning accessible design and can be used more generally in diverse contexts of interior design pedagogy. While these results are promising, continued research to more effectively adopt the use of this technology in the interior design studio is needed.

The rise of blockchain technology has made a particularly deep impact on financial technology. This study utilizes a gamification mechanism based on blockchain's transparency and unalterableness to allow users to see each other's transformed wallet data and virtual avatars during transactions, and in so doing, to build trust among users and make transactions fun. Meanwhile, the gamification mechanism will build a social group to enhance the perception of and interaction with the real world. This study intends to combine socialization capital and propose a brand-new financial experience and transaction model.

This paper presents an approach towards aiding the rehabilitation exercises in amblyopia care using mixed reality technology. The Lazy Eye Syndrome is tackled here through an interactive holographic application implemented on Microsoft HoloLens device. It provides an entertaining way for the handicapped eye workout as it is based on a simple game of skill. The game is designed in a way that the majority of aware requiring objects and events are displayed for the cured eye only, remaining the other eye responsible for background and additional information perception. Such disproportion forces an increased activity of the lazy eye, which is to perform more movements and impose the brain to process the sight more extensively. The proposed prototype is an extension of a novel approach towards treating amblyopia, employing software-based stimulation techniques, which could be easily adapted to various age and ability correlated needs of the user, with minimal requirements regarding the exercise setting and preparation.

The way we are experiencing and interacting with our everyday living environment define and anticipate our future behavior and actions. Today new digital technologies vastly diminish boundaries between virtual and physical world. Cross-reality design supported with recent mobile and context aware computing, gradually changed the concept of user interaction and moved it more toward usage of heterogeneous contexts, pervasive computing technologies, and multimodal spatial perception and transformed our living surroundings into smart environments, traditional living object into smart living objects. Ubiquitous computing vision implies more than ever to our lives. In order to make all these changes more human-centered in this paper we are investigated the cognitive and metaphorical aspects of future interface design strategies which could enhance user experience and ideas acceptance, communicated through multimodal interactions. In this paper we are presenting three tangible interfaces that we have developed for design and research purposes and results we collected during their public exposure. Hopefully, the results will give us sufficient insights for further investigations in the field of smart living environments and smart objects development. We believe that to fulfill these goals application and exploration of tangible interfaces frameworks and cognitive methods could be one of the crucial elements for the future research success.

Psychophysical finictions for perceived roughness, relating In (magnitude estimate of rouglmess) to In (groove width), were obtained for blind and sighted participants in virtual reality using the PHANToM force feedback device. The stimuli were sinusoidal surfaces with groove widths between 0.675 min and 20.700 mm. Group functions showed a similar nonlinearity to those obtained in physical reality using rigid probes (Klatzky, Lederman, Hamilton, Grindley, & Swendsen, 2003; Lederman, Klatzky, Hamilton, & Ramsay, 1999). Individual functions gave a different picture. Of 23 total participants, there were 13 with wholly descending linear psychometric functions, 7 with quadratic functions similar to the group function, and 3 with anomalous functions. Individual power law exponents showed no significant effects of visual status. All analyses gave a power law exponent close to -0.80. The implications for theories of roughness, methodologies of data analysis, and the design of haptic virtual reality interfaces are considered.

Objective: To evaluate construct and content validity as well as learners' perceptions of CathSim, a virtual reality intravenous (IV) insertion simulator. Methods: A prospective cohort study design was employed to determine construct validity, and a participant survey was used to ascertain content validity as well as user perceptions of CathSim. Forty-one attendings, residents, and medical students in emergency medicine and anesthesia attempted five simulated IV insertions on CathSim. Subject performances were scored by the computer, and subject perceptions of the simulator were measured using a Likert scale questionnaire (1 = worst rating; 5 = best rating). The subjects were divided into three groups (novices, intermediates, and experts) based on previous IV experience. To determine construct validity, performances of the three groups were compared using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). To determine content validity, the experts' perceptions of the simulator's realism and usefulness were assessed. Study subjects' perceptions of the simulator's ease of use and overall appeal were analyzed. Results: The experts scored better than the others in five of nine scoring parameters (p < 0.05). The experts rated the realism of CathSim's four major simulation components at 3.85, 3.46, 3.69, and 3.46; the overall realism of CathSim at 2.93; and its utility for medical student training at 4.57. The simulator's ease of use was rated at 2.34 by all subjects. Novices reported a score of 4.59 regarding their likelihood to use the simulator. Conclusions: CathSim demonstrated construct validity in five of nine internal scoring parameters and was judged to be adequately realistic and highly useful for medical student training. Despite being difficult to learn to use, it remained appealing to the users, especially the novices. Z8 0

Embodied agents are often designed with the ability to simulate human emotion. This paper investigates the psychological impact of simulated emotional expressions on computer users with a particular emphasis on how mismatched facial and audio expressions are perceived (e.g. a happy face with a concerned voice). In a within-subjects repeated measures experiment (N = 68), mismatched animations were perceived as more engaging, warm, concerned and happy when a happy or warm face was in the animation (as opposed to a neutral or concerned face) and when a happy or warm voice was in the animation (as opposed to a neutral or concerned voice). The results appear to follow cognitive dissonance theory as subjects attempted to make mismatched expressions consistent on both the visual and audio dimensions of animations, resulting in confused perceptions of the emotional expressions. Design implications for affective embodied agents are discussed and future research areas identified. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Z8 0

Many applications in teleoperation and virtual reality call for the implementation of effective means of displaying to the human operator information on the softness and other mechanical properties of objects being touched. The ability of humans to detect softness of different objects by tactual exploration is intimately related to both kinesthetic and cutaneous perception, and haptic displays should he designed so as to address such multimodal perceptual channel. Unfortunately, accurate detection and replication of cutaneous information in all its details appears to be a formidable task for current technology, causing most of today's haptic displays to merely address the kinesthetic part of haptic information. In this paper we investigate the possibility of surrogating detailed tactile information for softness discrimination, with information on the rate of spread of the contact area between the finger and the specimen. Devices for implementing this new perceptual channel are described, and some preliminary psychophysical test results are reported, validating the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed approach.

Virtual reality (VR) experiments are commonly used to assess human brain functions. We orient ourselves in an environment by computing precise self-to-object spatial relations (egocentric orientation) as well as object-to-object spatial relations (allocentric orientation). Egocentric orientation involves cues that depend on the position of the observer (i.e. left-right, front-behind), whereas allocentric orientation is maintained through the use of environmental features such as landmarks. As such, allocentric orientation involves short-term memory, whereas egocentric orientation does not. This paper presents a Virtual Reality Navigational (VRN) experiment specifically designed to assess egocentric spatial cognition. The design aimed to minimize the effect of spatial cues or landmarks for human navigation in a naturalistic VR environment. The VRN experiment designed for this study, called the Virtual House, is a symmetric three story cubic building, with 3 windows on each side on every floor, and one entrance on each side of the building. In each trial, a window is marked by a pseudo-random sequence as the objective. The marked window is shown to the participant from an outdoor view. The task is to reach the objective window using the shortest path through the building. The experiment entails 2 sets of 8 trials to cover all possibilities. The participants' performance error is measured by the difference between their traversed distance trajectory and the shortest natural distance (calculated using the VR engine), normalized by the shortest distance, in each trial. Fifty-two cognitively healthy adults participated in the study. The results show no learning effect during the 16 trails, implying that the experiment does not rely on short-term memory. Furthermore, the subjects' normalized performance error showed an almost linear increase with age, implying that egocentric spatial cognition ability declines with age.

This paper presents an optimization technique which modulates the computation complexity of the animation in virtual reality (VR). As this technique is based on the commonly used approaches in the domain of LOD, we call it LOmD (Level of motion Detail). We extend the classical LOD mechanism based on geometry removal according to the retinal image of the moving object, velocity of the object, and position of the object in the periphery of the visual field. The LOmD technique is based on the idea that our visual system is not able to recognize any differences in the quality of motions produced by different animation techniques (e.g. simple linear interpolation vs. physically based simulation) under different visual conditions (e.g. distance or eccentricity). Varying the motion detail we can balance the workload of the VR system in such a way that the only motions important for the user's view are refined using more complex simulation whereas other motions are linearly interpolated to guarantee the motion continuity. In order to achieve automatic behavior of the LOmD mechanism, we designed the visual acuity model based on visual perception which links the viewing conditions to the appropriate level of motion detail. The proposed method has been tested on implementation of a simple VR model. The results are presented in the section 5 of the paper.

Realistic versus stylized depictions of virtual humans in simulated inter-personal situations and their ability to elicit emotional responses in users has been an open question for artists and researchers alike. We empirically evaluated the effects of near visually realistic vs. non-realistic stylized appearance of virtual humans on the emotional response of participants in a medical virtual reality system that was designed to educate users in recognizing the signs and symptoms of patient deterioration. In a between subjects experiment protocol, participants interacted with one of three different appearances of a virtual patient, namely visually realistic, cartoon-shaded and charcoal-sketch like conditions in a mixed reality simulation. Emotional impact were measured via a combination of quantitative objective measures were gathered using skin Electrodermal Activity (EDA) sensors, and quantitative subjective measures such as the Differential Emotion Survey (DES IV), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), and Social Presence questionnaire. The emotional states of the participants were analyzed across four distinct time steps during which the medical condition of the virtual patient deteriorated (an emotionally stressful interaction), and were contrasted to a baseline affective state. Objective EDA results showed that in all three conditions, male participants exhibited greater levels of arousal as compared to female participants. We found that negative affect levels were significantly lower in the visually realistic condition, as compared to the stylized appearance conditions. Furthermore, in emotional dimensions of interest-excitement, surprise, anger, fear and guilt participants in all conditions responded similarly. However, in social emotional constructs of shyness, presence, perceived personality, and enjoyment-joy, we found that participants responded differently in the visually realistic condition as compared to the cartoon and sketch conditions. Our study suggests that virtual human appearance can affect not only critical emotional reactions in affective inter-personal training scenarios, but also users' perceptions of personality and social characteristic of the virtual interlocutors.

Objective.Visual prostheses are designed to restore partial functional vision in patients with total vision loss. Retinal visual prostheses provide limited capabilities as a result of low resolution, limited field of view and poor dynamic range. Understanding the influence of these parameters in the perception results can guide prostheses research and design.Approach.In this work, we evaluate the influence of field of view with respect to spatial resolution in visual prostheses, measuring the accuracy and response time in a search and recognition task. Twenty-four normally sighted participants were asked to find and recognize usual objects, such as furniture and home appliance in indoor room scenes. For the experiment, we use a new simulated prosthetic vision system that allows simple and effective experimentation. Our system uses a virtual-reality environment based on panoramic scenes. The simulator employs a head-mounted display which allows users to feel immersed in the scene by perceiving the entire scene all around. Our experiments use public image datasets and a commercial head-mounted display. We have also released the virtual-reality software for replicating and extending the experimentation.Main results.Results show that the accuracy and response time decrease when the field of view is increased. Furthermore, performance appears to be correlated with the angular resolution, but showing a diminishing return even with a resolution of less than 2.3 phosphenes per degree.Significance.Our results seem to indicate that, for the design of retinal prostheses, it is better to concentrate the phosphenes in a small area, to maximize the angular resolution, even if that implies sacrificing field of view.

Purpose Today, contactless businesses are becoming part of the "new normal" in daily life. Augmented reality-based services (ARBS) thus provide a mechanism for contactless commerce, offering customers access to sensory experiences, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, privacy can be a key concern when consumers decide whether to continue using ARBS. Thus, drawing on the Appraisal Tendency Framework (ATF), the study aims to examine how augmentation quality (Aug-Q), discrete emotions (joy and frustration) and privacy perceptions influence users' ARBS continuing use intention. Design/methodology/approach A survey methodology with a well-designed online questionnaire was used for data collection. The data were analyzed using a structural equation model with Amos v. 22.0 software. Findings This study demonstrated that Aug-Q had a significant positive impact on joy and a significant negative impact on frustration. Additionally, joy was positively associated with the perception of privacy benefits and ARBS continuing use intention, while frustration was negatively associated with the perception of privacy benefits and ARBS continuing use intention. The results also indicate that (perceived privacy risks) PPR-benefits predict the likelihood of ARBS continuing use intention. Originality/value This study enhances understanding of users' ARBS continuing use intention from an integrative perspective based on the ATF, thus identifying the Aug-Q-induced emotions that subsequently influence privacy trade-offs and predict users' ARBS continuing use intention. The results provide evidence that privacy and emotions can be key determinants when consumers decide whether to continue using ARBS. The findings of this research may be beneficial for commercial companies in preventing the loss of ARBS users.

The proliferation of high-immersion technologies might change the way virtual prototypes are used in the design process. This paper investigates the effect of immersion on reviews - critical design situations where many decisions are made. More specifically, the paper analyses the effect of immersion on spatial (intrinsic or extrinsic) and design space (problem or solution) aspects of the review. The effects have been tested in an experimental study comparing low- (computer screen) and high- (head-mounted display) immersion collaborative virtual environments (CVEs). In the experiment, four-member distributed teams conducted early-phase reviews with virtual prototypes represented in one of the two environments. Results show that the high-immersion CVE did not significantly affect the number of feedback items. Next, there was a non-significant but medium effect on the number of extrinsic feedback items, i.e., items that consider relations between the design and surroundings (e.g., users, environment). Finally, there was a significantly higher number and proportion of problem-related feedback items. Therefore, a high-immersion CVE might be more suitable if designers would like to get more problem-related or extrinsic feedback - essential aspects for the early design phases. These findings suggest that low-immersion and high-immersion CVEs are not substitutable but rather complementary technologies.

The development of digital taste and smell underscores the importance of cultural dimensions of bodily perception in augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) devices. This can be seen in Vocktail and Season Traveller, two digital devices incorporating taste and smell. Vocktail is an AR technology that augments the experience of drinking water, or even air, through the electrical stimulation of tastebuds and the manipulation of color and smell. Season Traveller is a VR game in which the user moves through four seasonal landscapes. It uses wind, odor, and temperature in addition to the more standard audio-visual displays. The cultural dimensions of these devices can be examined using phenomenological terms. They instigate perceptual circuits, and call on and create sedimented habits. Although VR and AR are often thought of in terms of their similitude to reality, understanding Vocktail and Season Traveller this way illustrates the world-creating dimension of multisensory devices. These technologies structure and shift thresholds of taste and smell, reworking past perceptual styles and habits to develop new perceptual experiences. In so doing, Season Traveller and Vocktail throw to the fore questions about the conditions according to which people exercise their senses in digitally dominated environments.

Architectural education requires students to work as a group under the supervision of a teacher in the same physical environment since they need interaction to learn how to do a set of measurements in practice. However, a number of obstacles, such as pandemic situations, weather conditions, and the crowdedness of working sites, do not allow them to be and work together in a physical environment. Existing digital solutions, such as online and distance education, do not provide the required immersive and collaborative learning environment to assist students to practice in the same virtual environment. Therefore, the main aim of this study is to develop an immersive architectural educational environment, named VRArchEducation, using Virtual Reality (VR). Specifically, we design and implement a system that allows students and teachers to enjoy direct and simultaneous interaction through their virtual avatars regardless of their current physical location. Furthermore, the proposed VRArchEducation will enable users to have hands-on immersive experience while performing a set of measurement tasks. VRArchEducation presents four virtual fundamental measurement tools: water level hose, plumb, measurement tape, and a sketching board. Using these tools, students can perform a building survey process together in the VRArchEducation system just like in a traditional class environment. We conduct a user study to evaluate the system's effectiveness, success, accuracy, and usability. The proposed VRArchEducation has a great potential to be used in architectural education as an alternative to the traditional environment.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Emotions play a critical role in our daily lives, so the understanding and recognition of emotional responses is crucial for human research. Affective computing research has mostly used non-immersive two-dimensional (2D) images or videos to elicit emotional states. However, immersive virtual reality, which allows researchers to simulate environments in controlled laboratory conditions with high levels of sense of presence and interactivity, is becoming more popular in emotion research. Moreover, its synergy with implicit measurements and machine-learning techniques has the potential to impact transversely in many research areas, opening new opportunities for the scientific community. This paper presents a systematic review of the emotion recognition research undertaken with physiological and behavioural measures using head-mounted displays as elicitation devices. The results highlight the evolution of the field, give a clear perspective using aggregated analysis, reveal the current open issues and provide guidelines for future research.

In this paper, we present prototypes of autostereoscopic displays which allow single users to experience stereoscopic vision without the need for special eye glasses or helmet-mounted displays. The design of the displays is based on lenticular raster plates and includes a number of novel concepts for tracking of raster plates or projection lenses to account for changes of the viewers position in front of the screen. Applications envisioned include 3-D multimedia desktop visualization for medical and biological imaging, design, and architecture, as well as computer games and 3-D virtual reality in general. Concepts and results for both high-resolution nat liquid-crystal panel monitors for PC desktop applications as well as Large screen high resolution displays using rear-projection technology are discussed.

Psychological research into human factors frequently uses simulations to study the relationship between human behaviour and the environment. Their validity depends on their similarity with the physical environments. This paper aims to validate three environmental-simulation display formats: photographs, 360 panoramas, and virtual reality. To do this we compared the psychological and physiological responses evoked by simulated environments set-ups to those from a physical environment setup; we also assessed the users' sense of presence. Analysis show that 360 panoramas offer the closest to reality results according to the participants' psychological responses, and virtual reality according to the physiological responses. Correlations between the feeling of presence and physiological and other psychological responses were also observed. These results may be of interest to researchers using environmental-simulation technologies currently available in order to replicate the experience of physical environments. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

[Background] Mental health problems are becoming increasingly common worldwide, yet public awareness and professional knowledge about mental health are at a low level. With the help of neuroscience research findings, people can understand mental health problems more clearly and accurately. However, neuroscience is time-costly for learners due to its professional complexity. Virtual reality (VR) technology, with the high level of visualization and strong interactivity, can provide an efficient learning environment for integrating neuroscience with mental health. [Methods] A literature review conducted using Web of Science revealed that such a VR system has not been developed. Utilizing Design Thinking Methodology, a framework of VR prototype for neuroscience education in mental health was proposed. This framework is designed to facilitate visualize and elucidate the brain mechanism and dynamic process under various mental health situations, offering interactive learning environment for learners and different users. [Conclusion] The research will facilitate the development of convenient and engaging VR tools from an interdisciplinary perspective for learners and practitioners in the field of mental health. The research suggests that utilizing VR technology is able to play an important role in addressing current societal issues in mental health.

Virtual reality (VR) strives to replicate the sensation of the physical environment by mimicking people's perceptions and experience of being elsewhere. These experiences are often mediated by the objects and tools we interact with in the virtual world (e.g., a controller). Evidence from psychology posits that when using the tool proficiently, it becomes embodied (i.e., an extension of one's body). There is little work, however, on how to measure this phenomenon in VR, and on how different types of tools and controllers can affect the experience of interaction. In this work, we leverage cognitive psychology and philosophy literature to construct the Locusof-Attention Index (LAI), a measure of tool embodiment. We designed and conducted a study that measures readiness-tohand and unreadiness-to-hand for three VR interaction techniques: hands, a physical tool, and a VR controller. The study shows that LAI can measure differences in embodiment with working and broken tools and that using the hand directly results in more embodiment than using controllers.

At present, visual and parametric designs have been widely used in architectural design, urban planning and landscape design for design inspiration. Highly integrated auxiliary design software has become more prevalent and greatly changed the traditional way of working with architectural design and urban planning with parameterised operations, convenient editing methods and efficient workflows. However, these methods for layout optimisation have more or fewer problems, such as humdrum forms, lack of aesthetic principles, and difficulty adapting to the layout optimisation of complex architectural environments, and usually presented obstacles to the users' understanding of hierarchical relationships in complex environments. This paper presents a novel 3D scene layout optimisation method that combines scene view information with an interactive genetic algorithm to optimise the virtual environment's layout. We apply the visual perception information of 3D building models to improve the scene's layout and integrate the evaluation of visual salient features with other factors to realise the intelligent scene's layout based on optimal 3D viewpoints and a genetic algorithm. The experimental results show that our method can efficiently optimise the layout of the 3D building environment, and it has innovation and practical application value in the fields of architectural visualisation, 3D animation, landscape planning and game design.

This paper presents the preliminary design and development of a visual augmentation glasses set to assist people with varying degrees of vision loss. The wearable spectacles are intended to be non-obstructive, thus employs a transparent OLED display providing 360 degrees viewing angles and creating an assistive overlay rather than the simulated view of a virtual reality device. Several aspects relevant to software development have been achieved including (i) a functional operating system running on an embedded device, called Jetson TK1, (ii) face detection and eye tracking, and (iii) hand-gesture recognition and control. Preliminary hardware design for the glasses has also been developed. The obtained results from preliminary have been promising with considerable challenges remaining in the development of the visual perception aspects of the proposed visual aid.

An intuitive way to externalize spatial memory is to sketch it. Compared to traditional paper -based sketches, virtual reality (VR) creates new opportunities to investigate the 3D aspect of spatial memory as it empowers users to express 3D information on a 3D interface directly. The goal of this study is to design a 3D sketch mapping tool for researchers and non -expert users without sketching expertise that enables externalizing memories of spatial information after some 3D -critical tasks. There exist 3D sketching tools using VR, but there are two issues with the current mid-air 3D sketching approach: (1) distortion of sketches due to depth perception errors and (2) increased cognitive and sensorimotor demands due to an increased degree of freedom and absence of physical support. To address these problems, we implemented VResin, a novel sketching interface that synergizes 3D mid-air sketching with 2D surface sketching to scaffold 3D sketching into a layerby -layer process. An experimental study with 48 participants on multi -layer building scenarios showed that VResin supports users in creating less distorted sketches while maintaining the level of completeness and generalization compared to mid-air sketching in VR. We also demonstrate the potential applications that can benefit from 3D sketch maps and the suitability of VResin for a variety of building shapes.

Purpose Virtual reality (VR) is becoming a more available technology including in public spaces like libraries. The value and role of VR as a tool for learning and social engagement are unclear. The purpose of this paper is to explore the ways in which library patrons and librarians perceive VR and experience VR through library drop-in programs. Design/methodology/approach This paper is based on research conducted in seven Washington State Libraries where VR was adopted for drop-in programming for the first time. Data was collected between March and June 2018 and involved interviews with librarians and patrons, a patron user experience survey, and observational field notes from researchers on site during library programs. Findings Findings are presented in relation to user perceptions of VR compared to their actual VR experiences, and in relation to informal learning and social engagements. The authors frame the analysis and discussion in relation to sociotechnical imaginaries - culturally situated ideas about the relationship between society and technology, and considering the larger cultural landscape that informs collective views about the present and future. Social implications The paper discusses pending and potential inequalities related to gender, race and class in conversation with technology industry and VR. Issues discussed include unequal access to technology in public libraries and representation of minoritized groups in VR. Originality/value This work takes a critical perspective considering the inequities in relation to mainstreaming VR through public spaces like libraries.

Despite the often quoted adage "beauty is in the eye of the beholder," studies indicate people perceive certain facial and bodily proportions as attractive regardless of their culture. This preference, which is present even in infants, may be more hardwired than learned. Designers of computer games, animation, virtual reality, and robots must make choices about how to depict humanlike forms. An understanding of human perception and preferences can lead to design principles for successful interaction. This study measured human responses to varying facial proportions in people, androids, mechanical-looking robots, and two- and three-dimensional characters. Participants showed greater agreement on the best proportions of faces they considered more humanlike and more attractive and less tolerance for deviation from these proportions in more attractive faces. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

We investigated the impact of an augmented reality (AR) versus interactive simulation (IS) activity incorporated in a computer learning environment to facilitate students' learning of a socio-scientific issue (SSI) on nuclear power plants and radiation pollution. We employed a quasi-experimental research design. Two classes (a total of 45 ninth-grade students) were randomly assigned to either the AR or IS treatments. We compared three outcome variables of the AR and IS groups: knowledge of and attitude towards the SSI, and perceptions of the AR or IS feature. We also examined the interplay among the three variables within each of the two groups. The results indicated no significant differences in knowledge and attitude, but a significant difference in the perceptions between the two groups. Moreover, different patterns of correlations among the variables were identified. The implication includes educational impact of emerging AR technologies to support affective aspects of student learning of SSIs.

Although virtual reality (VR) applications can provide immersive experiences, the design process is mainly executed in a desktop environment (DE). The omniscient point-of-view of the desktop allows the user to explore shapes and objects and their relationships with each other conveniently and efficiently. However, unlike a VR environment (VE), it is difficult for the user to perceive the space through their natural spatial perception from the first-person point-of-view in a DE. Although VEs and DEs have advantages and limitations, research exploring the design activity and review experience using these two mediums is limited. Thus, a method of integrating the characteristics and advantages of existing VEs and DEs is proposed as a hybrid design environment (HE). Empirical comparisons of the three environments (VE, DE, and HE) were performed according to the indicators of system usability, perceived workload, and satisfaction through a series of user experiments (n = 12), showing that the HE was superior on all indicators to the VE. Specifically, participants evaluated the usability of the VE method as the worst and found no significant difference between the usability of the DE and the HE. Perceived workload demand was significantly greater in the VE, and satisfaction levels were also significantly lower than in the other environments. Although the HE allowed both desktop and VR use, participants spent most of their time in the DE and used the VE primarily for design review.

An input device was proposed for human-computer interaction (HCI) by adding motion/position information to object in virtual environment. It can be used as a teaching and programming device by human demonstration through acquiring the human hand haptic information and manipulate virtual object in computer. The design and use of the device was described. The human compliant motion and its perception model were discussed in details. In the end some possible applications of the motion/force input device was introduced.

To exploit the potential of immersive network analytics for engaging and effective exploration, we promote the metaphor of "Egocentrism", where data depiction and interaction are adapted to the perspective of the user within a 3D network. Egocentrism has the potential to overcome some of the inherent downsides of virtual environments, e.g., visual clutter and cyber-sickness. To investigate the effect of this metaphor on immersive network exploration, we designed and evaluated interfaces of varying degrees of Egocentrism. In a user study, we evaluated the effect of these interfaces on visual search tasks, efficiency of network traversal, spatial orientation, as well as cyber-sickness. Results show that a simple Egocentric interface considerably improves visual search efficiency and navigation performance, yet does not decrease spatial orientation or increase cyber-sickness. An occlusion-free Ego-Bubble view of the neighborhood only marginally improves the user's performance. We tie our findings together in an open online tool for Egocentric network exploration, providing actionable insights on the benefits of the Egocentric network exploration metaphor.

Nowadays, Augmented-Reality (AR) head-mounted displays (HMD) deliver a more immersive visualization of virtual contents, but the available means of interaction, mainly based on gesture and/or voice, are yet limited and obviously lack realism and expressivity when compared to traditional physical means. In this sense, the integration of haptics within AR may help to deliver an enriched experience, while facilitating the performance of specific actions, such as repositioning or resizing tasks, that are still dependent on the user's skills. In this direction, this paper gathers the description of a flexible architecture designed to deploy haptically enabled AR applications both for mobile and wearable visualization devices. The haptic feedback may be generated through a variety of devices (e.g., wearable, graspable, or mid-air ones), and the architecture facilitates handling the specificity of each. For this reason, within the paper, it is discussed how to generate a haptic representation of a 3D digital object depending on the application and the target device. Additionally, the paper includes an analysis of practical, relevant issues that arise when setting up a system to work with specific devices like HMD (e.g., HoloLens) and mid-air haptic devices (e.g., Ultrahaptics), such as the alignment between the real world and the virtual one. The architecture applicability is demonstrated through the implementation of two applications: (a) Form Inspector and (b) Simon Game, built for HoloLens and iOS mobile phones for visualization and for UHK for mid-air haptics delivery. These applications have been used to explore with nine users the efficiency, meaningfulness, and usefulness of mid-air haptics for form perception, object resizing, and push interaction tasks. Results show that, although mobile interaction is preferred when this option is available, haptics turn out to be more meaningful in identifying shapes when compared to what users initially expect and in contributing to the execution of resizing tasks. Moreover, this preliminary user study reveals some design issues when working with haptic AR. For example, users may be expecting a tailored interface metaphor, not necessarily inspired in natural interaction. This has been the case of our proposal of virtual pressable buttons, built mimicking real buttons by using haptics, but differently interpreted by the study participants.

Over the last few years applications based on the use of immersive environments, where physical and digital objects coexist and interact, have gained widespread attention. Thanks to the development of new visualization devices, even at low cost, and increasingly effective rendering and processing techniques, these applications are reaching a growing number of users. While the adoption of digital information makes it possible to provide immersive experiences in a number of different applications, there are still many unexplored aspects. In this work, a preliminary step to understand the impact of the scene content on human perception of the virtual 3D elements in a mixed reality has been performed. To this aim, a subjective test was designed and implemented to collect the reaction time of a set of users in a mixed reality application. In this test each user was asked to wear an augmented reality headset and to catch a virtual objects randomly appearing in the subject's field of view. We first estimated the detection accuracy through omitted, anticipated, and completed responses; then we related stimulus location, scene content and estimated accuracy. For this purpose, the area of stimulus presentation was divided into upper, lower, right, left, inner, and outer, to understand in which area responses were omitted and anticipated with respect to the central point of view. Experimental results show that, in addition to the saliency of the real scene, natural body gesture technology and limited field of view influenced human reaction time.

Usher, a user interface far an Internet telerobot has been developed. It overlays multiple monoscopic images of the robot's environment with a three-dimensional stick figure visualization of the robot's 5 degrees of freedom. The operator drags the elements of this visualization with a pointing device to obtain additional depth cues, measure size. location and orientation of objects, and to control the manipulator. This paper describes the interface design from a human-computer interaction perspective, The user interface design was developed by applying the ecological approach of visual perception to a data visualization of the 5 degrees of freedom. This leads to a simple stick-figure-like structure that can be used to specify a pose in 3D space using only two-dimensional input devices. The user interface is implemented as a Java applet and can be used to control. Australia's Telerobot on the Web at http://telerobot.mech.uwa.edu.au/.

Virtual Reality (VR) is a technology that has been widely adopted by the gaming industry. However, it also has potential applications in education, simulation, and training. This paper presents a possible application of VR integrated into a larger path of education and workshops, serving as an aid to engage students and increase their enthusiasm about the present subject. The OcuLeO project is an immersive educational experience based on VR technologies. It is designed for young people to step into the shoes of the great inventor and innovator, Leonardo da Vinci, to stimulate creativity and problem-solving skills. The project was conceived and designed as part of the European eCHOing project, in collaboration between the Institute of Mechanical Intelligence of the Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies of Pisa and the Museo Leonardiano di Vinci. The study involved creating an application through coding and modelling phases and developing a coherent storyline. Testing sessions were conducted across Europe, interviewing users and obtaining qualitative and quantitative feedback on perceptions of the experience.

A growing number of studies in journalism research are concerned with the effects of immersive journalism (IJ) on audience perceptions and behaviors. This interest in IJ is logical, because IJ has the potential to become an impactful innovation for the industry. However, we have largely neglected the question of whether audiences want this form of emotional journalism. This study fills this gap and investigates whether people consider IJ worth their while. Using a factorial survey design, we presented a sample of 2000 German citizens with descriptions of an immersive production about protests in Belarus, in which we manipulate the use of inclusive technology (VR vs. AR vs. video), immersive narratives (first person vs. third person), agency (choice of perspective vs. no choice of perspective and control of location vs. no control), and emotionality (positive vs. negative vs. neutral tone). The analyzes reveal that an immersive narrative perspective, control and emotionality do not predict worthwhileness perceptions. However, productions that present people with inclusion and technological agency render this production more worthwhile in the eye of the individual user.

Ultra-reliable low-latency communication (URLLC) services are intrinsically challenging to deliver, with many SG and future services, including mobile game streaming, adding further complexity by demanding zero service downtime in high-mobility scenarios. Solving these challenges is essential and must be addressed beyond mobile gaming to realise a multitude of current and future services like eX-tended/Virtual Reality(XR/VR) or holoportation in mobile scenarios. Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) brings services "closer" to user consumption with evident advantages yet at the cost of maintaining a zero downtime guarantee when user handovers (HOs) are prevalent due to the decentralisation of services towards the network edge. In this work, we design and evaluate intelligent HO prediction models between radio SG Base Stations. The motivation for timely user HO prediction lies in being a vital presupposition for path steering and other MANO control actions in contemporary programmable SG networks to deliver a zero downtime perception during HO events. Our detailed simulation and actual testbed evaluation results show that effective HO prediction can be achieved using a combination of Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) or gradient boost regression with classification models, with the latter filtering out any Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP) prediction input outliers for predicting the serving cell.

In this paper we present a mobile augmented reality (MAR) application supporting teaching activities in interior design. The application supports students in learning interior layout design, interior design symbols, and the effects of different design layout decisions. Utilizing the latest AR technology, users can place 3D models of virtual objects as e.g., chairs or tables on top of a design layout plan and interact with these on their mobile devices. Students can experience alternative design decision in real-time and increases the special perception of interior designs. Our system fully supports the import of interior deployment layouts and the generation of 3D models based on design artefacts based on typical design layout plan design symbols and allows the user to investigate different design alternatives. We applied John Keller's Attention, Relevance, Confidence, and Satisfaction (ARCS) learning motivation model to validate our solution to examine the students' willingness and verify the ability of students to improve learning through MAR technology. We compared a sample experimental group of N = 52 test-subjects with a sample of N = 48 candidates in a control group. Learning indicators as learning interest, confidence, satisfaction and effective have been utilized to assess the students' learning motivation through the use of MAR technology. The learning results have been determined by the independent sample t testing. The significance of the post-test had a p-value < 0.05 difference. The result of the study clearly shows that the reference group utilizing MAR technology as a learning aid show a higher learning effectiveness as the control group. Thus, we conclude that MAR technology does enhance students' learning ability for interior design and making appropriate design decisions.

Problematic online usage (POU) and Internet addiction (IA) lack a refined classification. Using 796 questionnaires, this study is the first to reveal a continuum ranging from Casual users (i.e. older users) to Addicts (i.e. digital natives) acknowledging five different severity levels of POU to IA. Depending on where users are located within the addiction continuum, usability of augmented reality (AR) applications has different effects. Most interestingly, the experience of Casual users is triggered by enjoyment, whilst enjoyment exerts a negative effect on the emotional and action experiences of Addicts-in-denial. The study provides actionable implications for IA, POU, and AR behaviour.

We present Pull-Ups, a suspension kit that can suggest a range of body postures and thus enables various exercise styles of users perceiving the kinesthetic force feedback by suspending their weight with arm exertion during the interaction. Pull-Ups actuates the user's body to move up to 15 cm by pulling his or her hands using a pair of pneumatic artifcial muscle groups. Our studies informed the discernible kinesthetic force feedbacks that were then exploited for the design of kinesthetic force feedback in three physical activities: kitesurfng, paragliding, and space invader. Our fnal study on user experiences suggested that a passive suspension kit alone added substantially to users' perceptions of realism and enjoyment (all above neutral) with passive physical support, while suffcient active feedback can further level them up. In addition, we found that both passive and active feedback of the suspension kit signifcantly reduced motion sickness in simulated kitesurfng and paragliding compared to when no suspension kit (thus no feedback) was provided. This work suggests that a passive suspension kit is cost-effective as a home exercise kit, while active feedback can further level up user experience, though at the cost of the installation (e.g., an air compressor in our prototype).

Virtual Reality (VR) reconstructions of architectural acoustics situations are used in the context of design and renovation projects for acoustically sensitive spaces and historical studies. In such studies, it is important to understand the impact of the visual rendering on auditory perceptions of the spaces concerned. For such a study, a virtual scenario was created, comprising the rendering of a theatrical performance, staged in a 3D visual model of an actual theater. The theater's acoustics were numerically simulated using a geometrical acoustics model which was calibrated to in-situ measurements. The virtual scene was rendered on both a CAVE-light system and a Head Mounted Display (HMD) for various seating positions. Auralization, the audio rendering of the architectural acoustic simulation, was achieved using dynamic binaural processing of Ambisonic streams over headphones. Positionally matched and mismatched audio-visual configurations were presented in order to study the impact of the visual position and rendering system on the perceived acoustics. Results suggest that acoustic perceptual ratings were not affected by changing the visual rendering system.

Mobile edge computing (MEC) resource allocation for remote rendering in virtual reality (VR) content streaming is critical for user experience. However, resource allocation becomes challenging due to the desynchronization between the physical and digital worlds in digital twin-empowered MEC. This paper presents our continual RL framework that facilitates dynamic resource allocation for MEC-enabled VR content streaming. We first design a digital twin-empowered edge computing (DTEC) system and formulate a maximization problem that considers attention-based resolution perception to maximize the quality of experience (QoE). This problem optimizes the allocation of computing and bandwidth resources while adapting the attention-based resolution of the VR content. We then apply continual reinforcement learning (CRL) to enable adaptive attention-based resolution VR streaming in a time-varying environment. We base the CRL's reward function on the QoE and horizon-fairness QoE (hfQoE) constraints. We support CRL with prioritized experience replay - continual deep deterministic policy gradient (PER-CDDPG) to enhance the performance of continual learning in the presence of time-varying DT updates. We test PER-CDDPG using extensive experiments and evaluation. PER-CDDPG outperforms the benchmarks in terms of average latency, QoE, and successful delivery rate as well as meeting the hfQoE requirements and performance over long-term execution while ensuring system scalability with the increasing number of users.

This study focuses on serious virtual reality games, and how users can increase their understanding of the sustainable innovation learning (SIL) model and their familiarity with sustainable development strategies. "Users" of serious games consists of all possible target groups that are interested in attaining knowledge of sustainability through the use of games that are designed for a purpose beyond entertainment, in this case, for sustainable education. This research investigates the sustainable innovation experiential learning model by using a virtual chemistry laboratory to affect academic achievement. A questionnaire was completed by students who had used the virtual lab, and structural equation modeling (SEM) was applied for analysis. Importance-performance matrix analysis (IPMA) was able to help expand the basic partial least square (PLS)-SEM result with the fraction. The results show that experiential learning significantly affects learning motivation and academic achievement. Cognitive load and self-efficacy significantly affect learning motivation. Involvement significantly affects academic achievement. The virtual chemistry laboratory significantly affects academic achievement. Students who used the sustainability innovation experiential learning model obtained a better understanding of the chemical concepts. Moreover, a virtual lab promotes students' motivation in regard to chemistry.

As robotic telepresence is becoming more common and receives academic and industrial attention, the issue of how to increase the expressiveness of the telecommunication is becoming also important. In this paper, we explored the usage of 2D visual patterns displayed on the robot's body as a subsidiary visual channel to enhance communication between two remote users with a robot. Through a series of workshops with seventeen designers, we designed ten user-scenarios and corresponding 2D visual patterns to be used in four different environments: home, office, hospital, and department store. We then presented these patterns on the body of the M4K telepresence robot, and investigate with an online survey the expressiveness of the patterns in each of the proposed environments. Our results show the possibility of complex 2D visual expressions on the body of telepresence robots as a supplementary communication method and introduce a possible strategy for design those. Moreover, our results also show the overall perception and acceptability of these patterns split into three categories (progress indication, attention requests, and emotions) and across different environments.

The literature lacks a model of the specific environmental element that induces restoration. Thus, this study contributes to the development of sustainable and healthy environments by examining the effect of the soundscape and landscape experience on psycho-physiological restoration from the audio-visual interaction perspective. It examined various urban and natural environments to propose a restoration model for environmental design application. Sixty participants evaluated three each of urban, waterfront, and green environments using virtual reality technology. The audio-visual characteristics of environments were quantified, and environmental perception was assessed per 14 audio-visual element identifications, six perceived affective qualities, and six overall environmental qualities. The restoration responses were classified as psychological and physiological. Accordingly, 10 restoration models that can interpret design factors of the urban environment with a maximum correlation of 0.80 and an explanatory power of 22 % emerged from urban audio-visual design elements and psycho-physiological responses. Consequently, to improve restoration response, visually attractive and spatialnatural landscapes and acoustically supportive and tranquil soundscapes should be created. Moreover, urban designers can use the models to clearly identify physical characteristics that should be prioritized when promoting the health improvement of urbanites. Furthermore, the study findings can serve as basic data for the development of healthy environments.

Virtual reality systems would benefit from a compelling force sensory substitute when workspace or stability limitations prevent the use of kinesthetic force feedback systems. We present a wearable fingertip haptic device with the ability to make and break contact in addition to rendering both shear and normal skin deformation to the fingerpad. A delta mechanism with novel bias spring and tether actuator relocation method enables the use of high-end motors and encoders, allowing precise device control: 10 Hz bandwidth and 0.255 mm RMS tracking error were achieved during testing. In the first of two experiments, participants determined the orientation of a stiff region in a surrounding compliant virtual surface with an average angular error of 7.6 degree, similar to that found in previous studies using traditional force feedback. In the second experiment, we evaluated participants' ability to interpret differences in friction. The Just Noticeable Difference (JND) of surface friction coefficient discrimination using our skin deformation device was 0.20, corresponding with a reference friction coefficient of 0.5. While higher than that found using kinesthetic feedback, this demonstrates that users can perceive differences in surface friction without world-grounded kinesthetic forces. These experiments show that three DoF skin deformation enables both stiffness and friction discrimination capability in the absence of kinesthetic force feedback.

Actions in the real world have immediate sensory consequences. Mimicking these in digital environments is within reach, but technical constraints usually impose a certain latency (delay) between user actions and system responses. It is important to assess the impact of this latency on the users, ideally with measurement techniques that do not interfere with their digital experience. One such unobtrusive technique is electroencephalography (EEG), which can capture the users' brain activity associated with motor responses and sensory events by extracting event-related potentials (ERPs) from the continuous EEG recording. Here we exploit the fact that the amplitude of sensory ERP components (specifically, N1 and P2) reflects the degree to which the sensory event was perceived as an expected consequence of an own action (self-generation effect). Participants (N = 24) elicit auditory events in a virtual-reality (VR) setting by entering codes on virtual keypads to open doors. In a within-participant design, the delay between user input and sound presentation is manipulated across blocks. Occasionally, the virtual keypad is operated by a simulated robot instead, yielding a control condition with externally generated sounds. Results show that N1 (but not P2) amplitude is reduced for self-generated relative to externally generated sounds, and P2 (but not N1) amplitude is modulated by delay of sound presentation in a graded manner. This dissociation between N1 and P2 effects maps back to basic research on self-generation of sounds. We suggest P2 amplitude as a candidate read-out to assess the quality and immersiveness of digital environments with respect to system latency.

The "Greenhouse effect" polemic demonstrates how cultural dispositions can isolate perceptions from physical reality. The cost of this isolation is a suspension of the perception of cause and effect. Without cause and effect, we cannot reliably link our actions to their effects on our environment. I present design considerations for a joint project with Chris Chafe (CCRMA, Stanford University), which displays the causal relation between humans and their environment. This project, called Oxygen Flute is a hybrid system, which combines a physical structure, dynamic virtual information technology and real time computer music to enhance the perception of the CO2 cycle and the causal relation between human respiration, air quality, and plant life. The system aims to present an immersive, transparent relation between users and their environment. This transparent relation is a perhaps a way to overcome cultural dispositions, and to perceive that human life is by no means self-sustaining, but rather dependent on a dense net of supporting natural processes.

User experience (UX) application in the practice of engineering and product design is still limited. The present paper provides insights into research on UX design and recommendations for design practitioners by pointing out common criticalities. These outcomes are achieved through a literature review on how UX relates to design. First, issues in benefitting from UX understanding in design are identified with a specific focus on theoretical contributions. Second, experimental papers investigating UX and design are analysed in relation to previously identified issues. Although issues are present to some extent in all the contributions, the empirical studies dealing with UX in design are overall valid. The results highlight UX's support in revealing design requirements, but its capability of steering design processes is arguable, as concrete guidelines for practitioners are not well described. Based on identified issues, the authors propose a checklist to make UX studies in design more reliable and their outcomes more comparable. Z8 0

BackgroundThe integration of Text-to-Speech (TTS) and virtual reality (VR) technologies in K-12 education is an emerging trend. However, little is known about how students perceive these technologies and whether these technologies effectively facilitate learning.ObjectivesThis study aims to investigate the perception and effectiveness of TTS voices and VR agents in a K-12 classroom setting, with a focus on information recall.MethodsUsing a recent TTS architecture, we developed four different synthetic voices based on 5, 10, 15 and 20 h of training materials. Two experiments were conducted involving students in a K-12 setting. The first experiment examined students' evaluations of TTS voices with varying hours of training material and the impact on information recall. The second experiment assessed the effect of pairing TTS voices with a VR agent on students' perception and recall performance.Results and ConclusionsHuman voices received superior quality ratings over TTS voices within the classroom context. The integration of a VR agent was found to enhance the perception of TTS voices, aligning with existing literature on the positive impact of virtual agents on speech synthesis. However, this incorporation did not translate to improved recall, suggesting that the student focus may have been compromised by the VR agent's novelty and its design limitations. What is currently known about this topic? Human-like agents in multimedia learning applications have a positive effect on learning outcomes. For adult users, it is acceptable that virtual agents communicate with synthetic speech. Little is known about the impact of speech synthesis on comprehension and learning in primary school children. The perception of realistic virtual agents in primary school applications remains unknown.What does this paper add? VR agents enhance the perceived quality of human and synthetic voices in educational settings. The presence of VR agents diminishes the perceived differences between human and TTS voices. While VR enhances voice perception, it may also distract from content, reducing recall. Static VR agents without full-body movements could reduce their educational effectiveness.Implications for practice/or policy The presence of VR agents does not guarantee an improvement in learning performance. Enhancements in VR agent design, like full-body expressiveness, could improve learning outcomes. While VR might make synthetic voices feel more natural, its educational benefits are still uncertain. Ongoing research is needed to optimize VR technologies for enhanced learning experiences.

The haptic property of hand-held products is an important design consideration to guarantee products overall performance. This study proposes using haptic technologies in the virtual prototyping of flexible hand-held products. We put forward the metaphor of held in hand, characterised by mimicking the hand feel of products. Two haptic interfaces, one for precision/power grip and the other for scissor grip, are devised to support the embodiment of the metaphor. Two case studies, virtual prototyping for the designs of a toothbrush and a lady's hair clip, are implemented to showcase the two haptic interfaces and the metaphor. In the two experiments for the evaluation of the two prototyping systems, we found that the metaphor of held in hand and the two resultant haptic interfaces tend to enhance intuitiveness, perception and realism. This study provides a guideline for the virtual prototyping and haptic evaluation of flexible hand-held products.

Our work investigates body-worn 360 degrees camera placements for telepresence, to balance height and clarity of view. We conducted a user study in a Virtual Reality (VR) simulation, using a 3x3 within-subjects experimental design varying placement and height, with 26 participants. We found that shoulder mounted cameras were significantly less preferable than our other conditions due to the occlusions caused by the wearer's head. Our results did not show a significant effect of camera height within a range of +/- 12 inches from the user's natural height. As such, in the context of body-worn 360 degrees cameras, there is leeway for camera height, whereas strategic bodily placements are more important. Based on these results, we provide design recommendations for content creators using wearable cameras for immersive telepresence.

In this paper, we examine how embodiment and manipulation of a self-avatar's dimensions - specifically the arm length - affect users' judgments of the personal space around them in an immersive virtual environment. In the real world, personal space is the immediate space around the body in which physical interactions are possible. Personal space is increasingly studied in virtual environments because of its importance to social interactions. Here, we specifically look at two components of personal space, interpersonal and peripersonal space, and how they are affected by embodiment and the sizing of a self-avatar. We manipulated embodiment, hypothesizing that higher levels of embodiment will result in larger measures of interpersonal space and smaller measures of peripersonal space. Likewise, we manipulated the arm length of a self-avatar, hypothesizing that while interpersonal space would change with changing arm length, peripersonal space would not. We found that the representation of both interpersonal and peripersonal space change when the user experiences differing levels of embodiment in accordance with our hypotheses, and that only interpersonal space was sensitive to changes in the dimensions of a self-avatar's arms. These findings provide increased understanding of the role of embodiment and self-avatars in the regulation of personal space, and provide foundations for improved design of social interaction in virtual environments.

Intelligent virtual assistants (IVAs) can help older adults with information queries. Examining older adults' preferences for IVAs' information presentation can help improve user experience and older adults' acceptance of IVAs. This study investigated the effects of information modality and feedback on older adults' social presence, attitudinal outcomes (i.e., perceived enjoyment and satisfaction), and acceptance (i.e., perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, and behavioral intention to use). A total of 102 subjects were recruited to participate in two experiments. Results show that the visual-auditory bimodality is superior to single visual modality and single auditory modality for older adults based on the perceptions of social presence, attitudinal outcomes, and acceptance. Older adults perceived greater social presence, perceived enjoyment, satisfaction, and acceptance with text feedback than without in IVAs. Social-oriented voice feedback can improve older adults' perceptions of social presence, enjoyment, satisfaction, and acceptance than task-oriented voice feedback. This study provides practical implications in the design of IVAs' information presentation targeted at older adults.

As energy consumption in urban areas rises to the level of being a global concern, the impact of community behavior becomes critical to assessing and managing energy consumption. Eco-feedback systems are taking advantage of data streams from advanced metering infrastructure and are being widely implemented with the goal of increasing engagement in more sustainable behavior. However, the effectiveness of eco-feedback systems at an urban scale largely depends on how the information is communicated to and visualized by various communities. Advanced visualization technologies, such as virtual reality (VR), have proven to be efficient tools in information communication and visualization in diverse fields and present a promising opportunity in information representation for eco-feedback studies at scales larger than a single building. This paper examines the effectiveness of a VR-integrated community-scale eco-feedback system deployed across 54 buildings on Georgia Tech's campus by integrating 15-min increment energy consumption data into an interactive VR platform of the campus and conducting a user testing experiment on visualization characteristics, such as immersion, presence, involvement, and simulator sickness, along with system usefulness, that play a decisive role in users' preference and perceived energy-saving motivation toward the two systems. Yet, participants indicated polarized preferences for the two types of systems. This finding suggests that to increase the effectiveness of energy feedback at the urban scale as open urban energy data become more available, eco-feedback systems need to incorporate the specific preferences of the communities receiving feedback or be designed capable of displaying energy feedback that meets users' diverse preferences. In doing so, we may capitalize on the increasing data richness of energy consumption information in cities to more effectively encourage energy-saving behavior and meet the sustainability targets set by city governments.

The imminent introduction of highly immersive technologies for entertainment that bring exciting possibilities for the users also raises important questions regarding the impact on their well-being. Game Transfer Phenomena (GTP), a research approach focusing on understanding the psychosocial effects of video game playing by examining non-volitional phenomena (e.g., altered sensorial perceptions, automatic mental processes, involuntary motoric activations and behaviours related to playing video games), suggests similarities between gamers' experiences reported after playing on conventional devices and side effects of highly immersive technologies (e.g., head-up displays, highly realistic virtual environments). The aim of this paper is to discuss the challenges highly immersive technologies posit to the malleable human mind, taking into account not only the side-effects of the virtual immersion manifesting as physical symptoms, but also the psychosocial implications.

Head-gaze interaction is an integral mode of interaction in virtual reality (VR) applications, demonstrating high precision in fine manipulation tasks but low efficiency in large-scale object movements. To enhance the efficiency of head-gaze interaction, this study adjusted the control-display gain to compensate for the weaknesses of head-gaze interaction in a long-distance object-positioning task. We investigated the effect of the control-display gain of head-gaze interaction on movement time (MT) using a cohort of participants (n = 24) to perform experiments. The results showed that the MT first decreased as the gain increased from 1 to 1.5 and then increased afterwards. Further analysis showed that a high gain improved the interaction efficiency in the ballistic phase, but reduced the interaction efficiency in the corrective phase. To be able to obtain higher efficiency of interaction, we designed a dual-gain mode which set different gains in the ballistic and corrective phases. Evaluated using an additional experimental cohort (n = 24), our results showed that the dual-gain mode was more efficient than the mono-gain mode. Moreover, the dual-gain mode with optimal gains did not induce a more serious perception of inconsistency, confusion, nonacceptance and motion sickness, while it had a tendency to reduce the total workload compared to the interaction with normal gain. Our findings provide potential valuable design insights and guidance contributing to improving the efficiency of head-gaze interaction in virtual spaces.

A flight simulator is a device that replicates the experience of flying an aircraft realistically, without actually leaving the ground. It consists of a cockpit with various systems and instruments that simulate the flight environment through the use of augmented reality. Augmented reality is a technology that overlays virtual elements onto the real world, enhancing the user's perception and interaction with their environment in real time. Flight simulators have been identified as valuable tools to provide safe and cost-effective ways to train pilots and simulate emergencies. This form of augmented reality can improve safety training by allowing the trainees, or pilots, to visualize and interact with potential hazards in a controlled environment, which can help them understand and retain safety procedures. By doing a bibliometric analysis, we conducted a deep dive into the uses of flight simulators and how it impacts flight training and engineering design.

This paper presents computer and color vision research focusing on human color perception in VR environments. A VR art gallery with digital twins of original artworks is created for this experiment. In this research, the field of colorimetry and the application of the L*a*b* and RGB color models are applied. The inter-relationships of the two color models are applied to create a color modification of the VR art gallery environment using C# Script procedures. This color-edited VR environment works with a smooth change in color tone in a given time interval. At the same time, a sudden change in the color of the RGB environment is defined in this interval. This experiment aims to record a user's reaction embedded in a VR environment and the effect of color changes on human perception in a VR environment. This research uses lie detector sensors that record the physiological changes of the user embedded in VR. Five sensors are used to record the signal. An experiment on the influence of the user's color perception in a VR environment using lie detector sensors has never been conducted. This research defines the basic methodology for analyzing and evaluating the recorded signals from the lie detector. The presented text thus provides a basis for further research in the field of colors and human color vision in a VR environment and lays an objective basis for use in many scientific and commercial areas.

This paper describes a story-based multi-user VR environment designed to provide a comprehensive autistic experience to neurotypical individuals. The intention is improving current ASD educative tools, which can enhance social acceptance. Only a few initiatives intended portraying a wider picture of ASD and most are videos focused on sensory disorders. In this work, empathetic feelings were provoked by exposing users to a scenario where ordinary compulsions are seen through altered perception and cognition, so they can understand how it leads to unbearable overload. The multifaceted experience also allowed assuming caregivers' point of view, showing the heavy burdens of ASD and how parents can make it worse by failing to adapt to the divergent behavior.

Maintenance of home appliances can be tedious. Maintenance work can be physically demanding and it is not always easy to know the cause of a malfunctioning appliance. Many users need to motivate themselves to perform maintenance work and consider it ideal for home appliances to be maintenance-free. On the other hand, pets and other living creatures can be taken care of with joy and without much pain, even if they are difficult to take care of. To alleviate the hassle associated with the maintenance of home appliances, we propose an augmented reality (AR) system to superimpose an agent over the home appliance of concern who changes their behavior according to the internal state of the appliance. Taking a refrigerator as an example, we verify whether such AR agent visualization motivates users to perform maintenance work and reduces the associated discomfort. We designed a cartoon-like agent and implemented a prototype system using a HoloLens 2, which can switch between several animations depending on the internal state of the refrigerator. Using the prototype system, a Wizard of Oz user study comparing three conditions was conducted. We compared the proposed method (Animacy condition), an additional behavior method (Intelligence condition), and a text-based method as a baseline for presenting the refrigerator state. In the Intelligence condition, the agent looked at the participants from time to time as if it was aware of them and exhibited help-seeking behavior only when it was considered that they could take a short break. The results show that both the Animacy and Intelligence conditions induced animacy perception and a sense of intimacy. It was also evident that the agent visualization made the participants feel more pleasant. On the other hand, the sense of discomfort was not reduced by the agent visualization and the Intelligence condition did not improve the perceived intelligence or the sense of coercion further compared to the Animacy condition.

The expression of human emotion is integral to social interaction, and in virtual reality it is increasingly common to develop virtual avatars that attempt to convey emotions by mimicking these visual and aural cues, i.e. the facial and vocal expressions. However, errors in (or the absence of) facial tracking can result in the rendering of incorrect facial expressions on these virtual avatars. For example, a virtual avatar may speak with a happy or unhappy vocal inflection while their facial expression remains otherwise neutral. In circumstances where there is conflict between the avatar's facial and vocal expressions, it is possible that users will incorrectly interpret the avatar's emotion, which may have unintended consequences in terms of social influence or in terms of the outcome of the interaction. In this paper, we present a human-subjects study (N = 22) aimed at understanding the impact of conflicting facial and vocal emotional expressions. Specifically we explored three levels of emotional valence (unhappy, neutral, and happy) expressed in both visual (facial) and aural (vocal) forms. We also investigate three levels of head scales (down-scaled, accurate, and up-scaled) to evaluate whether head scale affects user interpretation of the conveyed emotion. We find significant effects of different multimodal expressions on happiness and trust perception, while no significant effect was observed for head scales. Evidence from our results suggest that facial expressions have a stronger impact than vocal expressions. Additionally, as the difference between the two expressions increase, the less predictable the multimodal expression becomes. For example, for the happy-looking and happy-sounding multimodal expression, we expect and see high happiness rating and high trust, however if one of the two expressions change, this mismatch makes the expression less predictable. We discuss the relationships, implications, and guidelines for social applications that aim to leverage multimodal social cues.

Objective. Chronic pain conditions such as phantom limb pain and complex regional pain syndrome are difficult to treat, and traditional pharmacological treatment and invasive neural block are not always effective. Plasticity in the central nervous system occurs in these conditions and may be associated with pain. Mirror visual feedback therapy aims to restore normal cortical organization and is applied in the treatment of chronic pain conditions. However, not all patients benefit from this treatment. Virtual reality technology is increasingly attracting attention for medical application, including as an analgesic modality. An advanced mirror visual feedback system with virtual reality technology may have increased analgesic efficacy and benefit a wider patient population. In this preliminary work, we developed a virtual reality mirror visual feedback system and applied it to the treatment of complex regional pain syndrome. Design. A small open-label case series. Five patients with complex regional pain syndrome received virtual reality mirror visual feedback therapy once a week for five to eight sessions on an outpatient basis. Patients were monitored for continued medication use and pain intensity. Results. Four of the five patients showed > 50% reduction in pain intensity. Two of these patients ended their visits to our pain clinic after five sessions. Conclusion. Our results indicate that virtual reality mirror visual feedback therapy is a promising alternative treatment for complex regional pain syndrome. Further studies are necessary before concluding that analgesia provided from virtual reality mirror visual feedback therapy is the result of reversing maladaptive changes in pain perception.

Augmented reality overlays computer-generated virtual information onto real-world scenes, enhancing user interaction and perception. However, traditional augmented reality optical systems are usually large, bulky, and have limited optical performance. In this paper, we propose a novel compact monochrome reflective dielectric metalens visor with see-through properties, engineered using a periodic structure of spin-dependent supercells. The supercell, which is composed of staggered twin nanofins, provides spin-dependent destructive or constructive interference with different circularly polarized incidences. The design combines the principles of interference with the Pancharatnam-Berry phase to enhance reflection at a working wavelength of 650 nm while maintaining good transmission. Right circularly polarized light incident from the substrate side causes destructive interference, enabling the supercell to work in reflection mode, while left circularly polarized light causes constructive interference, enabling the supercell to work in transmission mode. Furthermore, the supercell-constructed metalens can achieve near-diffraction-limited reflective focusing and a broad diagonal field of view of approximately 96 degrees. In addition, compared to transmissive metalens visors, the reflective design eliminates the need for a beam splitter, significantly reducing the size and weight of the system. Our work could facilitate the development of compact and lightweight imaging systems and provide valuable insights for augmented reality near-eye display applications.

Immersive visualization in virtual reality (VR) allows us to exploit visual cues for perception in 3D space, yet few existing studies have measured the effects of visual cues. Across a desktop monitor and a head-mounted display (HMD), we assessed scatterplot designs which vary their use of visual cues-motion, shading, perspective (graphical projection), and dimensionality-on two sets of data. We conducted a user study with a summary task in which 32 participants estimated the classification accuracy of an artificial neural network from the scatterplots. With Bayesian multilevel modeling, we capture the intricate visual effects and find that no cue alone explains all the variance in estimation error. Visual motion cues generally reduce participants' estimation error; besides this motion, using other cues may increase participants' estimation error. Using an HMD, adding visual motion cues, providing a third data dimension, or showing a more complicated dataset leads to longer response times. We speculate that most visual cues may not strongly affect perception in immersive analytics unless they change people's mental model about data. In summary, by studying participants as they interpret the output from a complicated machine learning model, we advance our understanding of how to use the visual cues in immersive analytics.

The arrival of the experience economy tide has claimed the decision-making power of the garment industry shifted from the enterprise to the consumer. Enhancing the shopping experience is an essential part of attracting customers. Traditional clothing store design needs to be updated with cutting-edge technology. This paper presents a virtual fitting and evaluation system in virtual reality environment. Based on digital human body model data acquisition technology, three-dimensional human body visualization modeling for garment design process is carried out. The CLO3D technology is used to realize the three-dimensional design and virtual performance of clothing. Aiming at the cognitive differences between designers and consumers in fashion design, an explorative research was done based on the consumers' perceptual cognition of clothing, which suggested an evaluation method for clothing based on perceptual image and established a perceptual cognition matching model between customers and designers. With the methods of expert interviews, questionnaires, focus groups, card classification, four evaluation dimensions of clothing design were extracted: overall style, appearance style, color&fabric, pressure perception and 11 corresponding evaluation factors. Taking business men's wear as an example, an evaluation factor knowledge base and a general computer-aided clothing design emotional image evaluation system are constructed. Based on this system, consumers can get a new experience of immersive virtual fitting, and designers can quickly get consumers' evaluation of clothing design to improve efficiency of clothing design.

Colour coding is known to have a significant impact on navigation tasks in the real world by showing the way where to go or by highlighting certain regions in a building where specific activities are performed. Colour coding is frequently used in large buildings, such as hospitals, to help patients navigate and locate clinics. However, it is still not well known how colour coding works in virtual reality systems, or its influence on tasks such as navigation and situation awareness. In this experiment, we explore the impact of colour coding on a navigation task by comparing participants' performances in a virtual world. Five different mazes with the similar level of complexity are attributed to various schemes. In the first experiment, participants are asked to find the exit in a virtual maze without any assistance; in the second and third experiments, participants are provided with a two-dimensional (2D) map with and without a global positioning system (GPS) as a guide to find the exit; in the fourth and fifth experiments, participants are provided with a 2D map with the selected colours embedded along the routes and with and without a GPS to indicate direction. The experimental results will provide evidence on how the colour-coding scheme influences user performance in a virtual world navigation task. This may have a strong influence on the future design of virtual reality training systems.

In this paper, we present a study of redirected walking (RDW) that shifts the positional relationship between visual and auditory cues during curvature manipulation. It has been shown that, when presented with incongruent visual and auditory spatial cues during a localization task, human observers integrate that information based on each cue's relative reliability, which determines their final perception of the target object's location. This multimodal integration model is known as maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). By altering the visual location of objects that users perceive in virtual reality (VR) through auditory cues during redirection manipulation, we expect fewer users to notice the manipulation, which helps increase the usable curvature gain. Most existing studies on MLE in multimodal integration have used random-dot stereograms as visual cues under stable motion states. In the present study, we first investigated whether this model holds while walking in VR environment. Our results indicate that in a walking state, users' perceptions of the target object's location shift toward auditory cue as the reliability of vision decreases, in keeping with the trend shown in previous studies on MLE. Based on this result, we then investigated the detection threshold of curvature gains during redirection manipulation under a condition with congruent visual-auditory cues as well as a condition in which users' location perceptions of the target object are considered to be affected by the incongruent auditory cue. We found that the detection threshold of curvature gains was higher with incongruent visual-auditory cues than with congruent cues. These results show that incongruent multimodal cues in VR may have a promising application in the area of redirected walking

In contact operations, haptic information plays a very important role on compensating the limitation of visual information. Therefore, there is growing interests in the application of force feedback to improve the perception of the operators in virtual training systems. Based on the analysis on the load of the force feedback system, a gain-scheduling fuzzy proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller is proposed to deal with the issues about position-force control in the training system with guiding force. The experiment results showed that, users can perform the training through moving along the predesigned trajectories under the guidance of haptic feedback, while the jitter of the force feedback device was effectively suppressed during the training process. Thus, it is suggested that this proposed fuzzy-PID controller can be widely used in the force feedback training systems, such as rehabilitation robots and skill training systems in which the users have to maintain a proper moving path.

A better understanding of how users perform virtual reality (VR) tasks may help build better VR interfaces. In this study, we concentrated on the compensatory behavior in VR depending on the tasks and users' characteristics. The tasks characteristics considered were display size ( large display vs. desktop monitor) and tasks types ( manipulation and travel). The users' characteristics studied were the visual attention abilities and users' satisfaction. Ninety-five subjects participated in the experimentation composed of two parts: the first one consisted in cognitive tests used to evaluate visual attention abilities, and the second one was based on a set of VR tasks. Our result showed that large displays positively affect on performance for some kinds of VR tasks. Moreover, this impact was linked to users' satisfaction and visual attention abilities. Indeed, users with low-level attention abilities and users who preferred the large display took more advantage of large displays. We concluded that large displays can be considered cognitive aids depending on the tasks and users' characteristics.

This research investigates trainee reflections on Virtual Reality Environments (VREs) within educational training centers, aiming to understand their experiences, perceptions, and preferences. The study focuses on the impact of haptic feedback vibrations, examining both their general effects during VRE interactions and the specific influence of adaptable vibration configurations triggered by user errors. A convenience sample of 81 participants/trainees, 41 from the computer science and 40 from the aviation engineering departments of a major higher education institution in the U.A.E., was used to run four variations of the same VRE, with two from each field. Results indicate that participants largely embraced the VRE experience, reporting feelings of contentment, joy, and competence. Haptic feedback, particularly in non-adaptable forms, was acknowledged as enhancing the immersive experience. However, the study suggests that further research is needed to explore the nuanced role of adaptable vibration, especially in more complex interactions. Notably, participants expressed a preference for a blended approach, advocating for both VREs and physical labs in their training. The study acknowledges limitations, such as the predominantly single-user focus, and recommends future research extensions into collaborative VRE settings, more intricate interactions, and potential technical issues in multi-user scenarios. Overall, this research sheds light on the evolving landscape of educational training, emphasizing the importance of understanding trainee perspectives to optimize the integration of VREs in learning environments.

Tangible User Interfaces offer new ways of interaction with virtual objects, yet little research has been conducted on their learner-friendly design in the context of spatial learning. Although frameworks such as Embodied Cognition stress the importance of sensory perception and movement, studies have found that high interactivity can be overwhelming and may lead to a lower learning performance. In a 2 x 2 factorial design participants (n = 96) learned heart anatomy using a 3D model that was either controlled using a mouse or a tangible object, i.e. a motion tracked plastic model of the virtual heart. Secondly, we varied the interaction mode featuring either a selective pointing mode in which only the label that the user currently activated was displayed or permanent display of all labels. Retention performance, cognitive load scores, and motivation measures indicate that the tangible object leads to significantly higher learning outcomes. The effect of the label display mode is different for the two input devices: The performance with selective pointing in the mouse condition is better than the performance with permanent display in the mouse condition; in the TUI condition this is exactly the other way around. Based on these results, we propose extensions for Embodied Cognition and Cognitive Load Theory. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

The current paper aims to present the process used for validating a VR game in its two modes: single and co-op. Through the combination of qualitative and quantitative approaches, it was possible to map the users' initial perceptions, points of improvements, and expectations for the information assessment. Ultimately, it was possible to observe that although both single and co-op modes were introduced to participants, the latter created a greater level of engagement and motivation, increasing the participants' interest.

Tangible objects are used in virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) to enhance haptic information on the general shape of virtual objects. However, they are often passive or unable to simulate rich varying mechanical properties. This article studies the effect of combining simple passive tangible objects and wearable haptics for improving the display of varying stiffness, friction, and shape sensations in these environments. By providing timely cutaneous stimuli through a wearable finger device, we can make an object feel softer or more slippery than it really is, and we can also create the illusion of encountering virtual bumps and holes. We evaluate the proposed approach carrying out three experiments with human subjects. Results confirm that we can increase the compliance of a tangible object by varying the pressure applied through a wearable device. We are also able to simulate the presence of bumps and holes by providing timely pressure and skin stretch sensations. Altering the friction of a tangible surface showed recognition rates above the chance level, albeit lower than those registered in the other experiments. Finally, we show the potential of our techniques in an immersive medical palpation use case in VR. These results pave the way for novel and promising haptic interactions in VR, better exploiting the multiple ways of providing simple, unobtrusive, and inexpensive haptic displays.

We propose to study the combination of acoustically transparent tangible objects (ATTs) and ultrasound mid-air haptic (UMH) feedback to support haptic interactions with digital content. Both these haptic feedback methods have the advantage of leaving users unencumbered, and present uniquely complementary strengths and weaknesses. In this article, we provide an overview of the design space for haptic interactions covered by this combination, as well as requirements for their technical implementation. Indeed, when imagining the concurrent manipulation of physical objects and delivery of mid-air haptic stimuli, reflection and absorption of sound by the tangibles may impede delivery of the UMH stimuli. To demonstrate the viability of our approach, we study the combination of single ATT surfaces, i.e. the basic building blocks for any tangible object, and UMH stimuli. We investigate attenuation of a focal point focused through various plates of acoustically transparent materials, and run three human subject experiments investigating the impact of acoustically transparent materials on detection thresholds, discrimination of motion, and localization of ultrasound haptic stimuli. Results show that tangible surfaces which do not significantly attenuate ultrasound can be fabricated with relative ease. The perception studies confirm that ATT surfaces do not impede perception of UMH stimulus properties, and thus that both may viably be combined in haptics applications.

Virtual reality (VR) offers immense freedom in the design of virtual instructional environments, but little guidance exists on how to capitalise on this freedom. This article reports on a study exploring how audience familiarity influences public speaking anxiety (PSA) and performance in a presentation speaking task in virtuo and in situ. Questionnaire instruments were used to gauge the PSA, motivation, focus, and self-confidence of 10 undergraduate students who each presented in four different audience conditions across VR and real life. Presentations were transcribed to identify features of performance, including utterance fluency, and speaking breadth and depth. Outcomes indicated that an audience of computer-generated agents resulted in less PSA than an audience of photorealistic people familiar to the speakers. Additionally, presenting to an audience of strangers in real life induced the most anxiety, but the performance features of articulation rate, disfluencies, and frequency of silent pauses were significantly improved in this condition. The main contribution of this study is to show that presentations directed at virtual audiences exhibit less fluent speech in non-native speakers than speeches to a real audience.

Navigating complex routes and finding objects of interest are challenging tasks for the visually impaired. The project NAVIG (Navigation Assisted by artificial VIsion and GNSS) is directed toward increasing personal autonomy via a virtual augmented reality system. The system integrates an adapted geographic information system with different classes of objects useful for improving route selection and guidance. The database also includes models of important geolocated objects that may be detected by real-time embedded vision algorithms. Object localization (relative to the user) may serve both global positioning and sensorimotor actions such as heading, grasping, or piloting. The user is guided to his desired destination through spatialized semantic audio rendering, always maintained in the head-centered reference frame. This paper presents the overall project design and architecture of the NAVIG system. In addition, details of a new type of detection and localization device are presented. This approach combines a bio-inspired vision system that can recognize and locate objects very quickly and a 3D sound rendering system that is able to perceptually position a sound at the location of the recognized object. This system was developed in relation to guidance directives developed through participative design with potential users and educators for the visually impaired.

Peoplewith intellectual disability access innovative technologies in disability community centres in Australia, under the guidance of support workers. This article investigates the perspectives of 15 support workers and 5 managers across four community centres on the introduction and use of technology like tablets, video games, 3D printing, virtual reality, and social robots. They had diverse views on who is responsible for facilitating, embedding, and shaping technology for learning life skills and socializing. We found technology use to be driven by facilitator's knowledge (pre-existing, observed, or trained), interests, the value they place on the interactions afforded by the technology, and organization values. We discuss how future designs can emphasise communities of users while empowering individuals to achieve their goals. We suggest co-design strategies for assistive technology that involve support workers in the dual roles of proxy and co-user. We finally discuss how broader organisational factors can influence appropriation and use.

Sound design has been a fundamental component of audiovisual storytelling. However, with technological developments things are rapidly changing. More sensory information is available and, at the same time, the user is gaining agency upon the narrative, being offered the possibility of navigating or making other decisions. These new characteristics of immersive environments bring new challenges to storytelling in interactive narratives and require new strategies and techniques for audiovisual narrative progression. Can technology offer an immersive environment where the user has the sensation of agency, of choice, where her actions are not mediated by evident controls but subliminally induced in a way that it is ensured that a narrative is being followed? Can sound be a subliminal element that induces attentional focus on the most relevant elements for the narrative, inducing storytelling and biasing search in an audiovisual immersive environment? Herein, we present a literature review that has been guided by this prospect. With these questions in view, we present our exploration process in finding possible answers and potential solution paths. We point out that consistency, in terms coherency across sensory modalities and emotional matching may be a critical aspect.

The paper presents the application of augmented reality for aiding product design and development of machinery systems. Augmented reality technology integrates an interactive computer-generated word with an interactive real word in such a way that they appear as one environment. AR technology can enhance a user's perception of the real world with information that is not actually part of the scene but is relevant to the user's present activity. Presented in the AR system is a mode for changing views of data - especially 3D models - allowing the user to understand the prospective machinery system in a more comprehensive way, thus making the design process more efficient than the one supported by conventional present-day CAD systems. The presented prototype system contains an expert system integrated with AR system and allows the delivering of knowledge to the designer about successive steps of the design process of a mobile robot and practical solutions of realized constructional problems. An approach concerning AR enables the system user to analyze and verify solutions (represented as 3D models) relative to real scenes/objects. This approach is advantageous because the real environment around us often provides a vast amount of information that is difficult to duplicate in a computer. In some cases, the application of an AR system could be an optimal way to verify developed products.

The human visual system evolved in environments with statistical regularities. Binocular vision is adapted to these such that depth perception and eye movements are more precise, faster, and performed comfortably in environments consistent with the regularities. We measured the statistics of eye movements and binocular disparities in virtual-reality (VR) - gaming environments and found that they are quite different from those in the natural environment. Fixation distance and direction are more restricted in VR, and fixation distance is farther. The pattern of disparity across the visual field is less regular in VR and does not conform to a prominent property of naturally occurring disparities. From this we predict that double vision is more likely in VR than in the natural environment. We also determined the optimal screen distance to minimize discomfort due to the vergence-accommodation conflict, and the optimal nasal-temporal positioning of head-mounted display (HMD) screens to maximize binocular field of view. Finally, in a user study we investigated how VR content affects comfort and performance. Content that is more consistent with the statistics of the naturalworld yields less discomfort than content that is not. Furthermore, consistent content yields slightly better performance than inconsistent content.

We developed a two-dimensional motion sickness measurement index for augmented reality (AR) environments. Studies on the side effects of AR devices, such as motion sickness, are needed. There is no sickness measuring tool for AR environments; therefore, we modified the conventional simulator sickness questionnaire (SSQ) for use in AR environments. Twenty-four participants performed target selection tasks using Microsoft HoloLens to measure motion sickness in an AR environment. The SSQ data were collected after each task in a Latin square balanced design experiment. The existing three-component SSQ was revised to develop a two-component AR sickness questionnaire (ARSQ) through exploratory and confirmatory analyses. The button size and distance from the target virtual objects to eyes were found to be significant factors affecting motion sickness in the AR environment. The obtained results can be used for measuring motion sickness in AR devices and designing AR applications.

INTRODUCTION: Although gut-directed psychotherapies are effective for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), they are rarely prescribed, given a paucity of trained clinicians. Virtual reality (VR) offers a solution by allowing patients to self-practice these techniques in a standardized manner. METHODS: A multidisciplinary team developed IBS/VR, a program that transports users into immersive VR worlds that teach patients about the brain-gut axis, cognitive behavioral therapy, and gut-directed meditation. We tested IBS/VR in Rome IV IBS patients and used inductive analysis to evaluate perceptions and identify recommendations. RESULTS: We achieved thematic saturation after 9 interviews; 3 additional interviews revealed no emergent themes. After making 23 software changes based on patient feedback, we conducted 3 additional interviews which confirmed thematic saturation (N = 15 total). DISCUSSION: This study offers initial validation of the first VR program designed for IBS.

Understanding the external environment depends heavily on vision, audition, and touch. Like vision and audition, the human sense of touch is complex. Tactile perception is composed of multiple fundamental and physical experiences felt as changes in stiffness, texture, shape, size, temperature, and weight by the skin. While researchers and industries have made continuous efforts to abstract and recreate these haptic experiences, haptic devices are still limited in invoking intricate and rich sensations. Herein, the design, model, and experimental validation of a wearable skin-like interface, able to recreate the roughness, shape, and size of a perceived object is presented; a platform for an interactive "physical" experience. The cogency of immersion through tactile feedback on moldable clay by the user response from the active haptic feedback, is examined. For the experimental test, a soft pneumatic actuator (SPA)-skin interface (90Hz bandwidth) with a complex actuation pattern is prototyped. The SPA-skin's performance using three sets of simulated textures (<300<mu>m) and for reconstructing simulated contours (of a rectangle, circle, or trapezoid) in the virtual reality (VR) platform is investigated. The experimental results demonstrated for the first time how artificially created tactile feedback can indeed simulate physical interaction, with 83% average accuracy for contour reconstruction.

Children are being presented with augmented reality (AR) in different contexts, such as education and gaming. However, little is known about how children conceptualize AR, especially AR headsets. Prior work has shown that children's interaction behaviors and expectations of technological devices can be quite different from adults'. It is important to understand children's mental models of AR headsets to design more effective experiences for them. To elicit children's perceptions, we conducted four participatory design sessions with ten children on designing content for imaginary AR headsets. We found that children expect AR systems to be highly intelligent and to recognize and virtually transform surroundings to create immersive environments. Also, children are in favor of using these devices for difficult tasks but prefer to work on their own for easy tasks. Our work contributes new understanding on how children comprehend AR headsets and provides recommendations for designing future headsets for children.

Background: There has been an increase of mid-career professionals joining nursing. These adult students possess significant expertise in other areas and may benefit substantially in deliberate practice to acquire skills com- petency using immersive virtual reality (IVR) for clinical procedures before they practise in actual clinical settings. Objectives: This study aims to (1) examine the impact of IVR clinical procedures on mid-career switch students in knowledge, game perception and user reaction; (2) to explore the mid-career switch students' perceptions and experiences in using the IVR clinical procedures.Design: A mixed methods feasibility study was used.Setting and participants: This study was conducted at a university in Singapore with 34 first-year mid-career switch students.Methods: This study is a single-group pre-test and post-test experimental study on learning clinical procedures using IVR in the home setting. The study took place from September to November 2021. Focus group discussions were conducted and analysed verbatim using thematic analysis.Results: The students demonstrated significant improvement of knowledge for subcutaneous insulin, but overall, the increase in combined scores for both intravenous therapy and subcutaneous insulin were not statistically significant. Three overarching themes included: 1) Learning and practice, 2) Challenges and barriers, and 3) Personal attributes. Most of the participants found the experiences to be engaging, relevant, and satisfying. Some reported experiencing giddiness, headache, and lack of familiarity with technologies. Conclusions: IVR simulation can potentially be used as a supplementary learning tool to improve knowledge of clinical procedures in mid-career switch students.

Introduction Embodying fit avatars in virtual reality (VR) is proposed as a possible treatment for cortical body representations and pain-related self-perceptions. Objective To explore consumer perceptions of a novel VR intervention (VR-BiT) for chronic low back pain. Methods Adults (n = 17, mean age(SD) = 52(14)) with chronic low back pain who had undergone a single session of VR-BiT as part of a randomized controlled trial underwent a semi-structured interview using open-ended questions. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed thematically. Results Data reduction identified four themes: clinically beneficial and beyond; helping and hindering use; desire for more; and individualized future. Participants experienced wide ranging effects, including improved physical self-efficacy, pain, ability to perform physical activity and psychological symptoms. The intervention was well tolerated, except for two reports of nausea, and a few participants indicating pain associated with unaccustomed movement. Most participants were motivated to use VR-BiT again, despite some having technical issues. Participants suggested that personalizing VR-BiT and regular use would be beneficial. Conclusions There was strong consumer support for further use of VR-BiT. Future studies of VR-BiT effectiveness are warranted and should consider incorporating individual user preferences, including people with diverse pain presentations, and involving a multi-session design. Z8 0

We describe an advanced Human Computer Interaction (HCI) model that employs photo-realistic virtual humans to provide digital media users with information, learning services and entertainment in a highly personalized and adaptive manner. The system can be used as a computer interface or as a tool to deliver content to end-users. We model the interaction process between the user and the system as part of a closed loop dialog taking place between the participants. This dialog, exploits the most important characteristics of a face-to-face communication process, including the use of non-verbal gestures and meta communication signals to control the flow of information. Our solution is based on a Virtual Human Interface(1) (VHI) technology that was specifically designed to be able to create emotional engagement between the virtual agent and the user, thus increasing the efficiency of learning and/or absorbing any information broadcasted through this device. The paper reviews the basic building blocks and technologies needed to create such a system and discusses its advantages over other existing methods.

Companies have explored various forms of virtual reality (VR) shopping, yet what is known about the user adoption behavior of VR apps is minimal and research into VR shopping from a user acceptance perspective is limited. This study investigates the factors that affect the intention to use VR for online shopping through undergoing a virtual shopping experience in the VR app. This is an exploratory study using a quantitative methodology. The findings indicate that telepresence, attitude, perceived control (PC), satisfaction, hedonic motivation (HM), and perceived usefulness (PU) are direct determinants of intention to use, whereas perceived security risk has no effect. Moreover, PEOU, PU, PC, and telepresence are indirect determinants of intention to use. This research is valuable for its identification of the determinants that can affect the adoption of VR in online shopping. This study helps store owners to understand what features will enable a successful implementation of virtual stores (VSs). This study has several limitations. First, the study was conducted using a convenience sample, making it difficult to generalize the results to the whole population. In terms of method, the study was entirely quantitative, using a questionnaire entirely consisting of close-ended questions, so participants were limited in their response options. The final limitation is in the scope of the research, which covered the perceptions of consumers only, while employees' and ICT experts' perspectives were not considered. In light of these limitations, this study allows some suggestions for future research directions to be made. (a) The perspectives of employees and ICT experts could be included so that more factors will be generated. (b) Future research could use different methodologies such as mixed methods to gain a deeper understanding of the responses. (c) A longitudinal study could be designed to address any developments occurring in VS features, as e-commerce is continually being developed. Z8 0

The transformation of education through emerging technologies has been an imperative due to the pandemic of COVID-19, which has forced higher education institutions to propose strategies to provide better experiences for their students. The objective of this research was to identify the challenges and opportunities of using WebVR tools for the development of academic activities, with the intention of interpreting how these technological tools are combined with educational practices among teachers and students. The context was placed in an activity of a graduate level course in online format, in a private higher education institution in Mexico. A qualitative study was conducted with a case study design to account for the perception of the participants regarding the value of the user experience, the analysis of the integrated tools and the contribution of this WebVR tool to the development of competencies in educational practice. The results show that if the technical requirements and a basic level of appropriation of digital competencies are met, including this type of emerging technology will bring benefits to the educational practice, such as the development of transversal and disciplinary competencies, improvement of interaction and socialization of participants, as well as motivation by incorporating playful elements.

A number of countries have recently introduced legislation aimed at ending discrimination against disabled people; in the United Kingdom the Disability Discrimination Act (1995) provides the disabled community with new employment and access rights. The intention of the act is to help those who rely on wheelchairs for mobility and who frequently find that not all buildings provide conditions suited to easy access. Central to these new rights will be an obligation for employers and organizations to provide premises that do not disadvantage the disabled. This work reports on the development of instrumentation that allows wheelchair navigation within virtual buildings and can assist architects in identifying the needs of wheelchair users at an early design stage. Central to this project has been the need to provide a platform that can accommodate a range of wheelchair types and will map intended wheelchair motion into a virtual space. This interface must have the capacity to provide feedback to the user reflecting constraints present in the physical world, including changes in floor surface characteristics, gradients, and collisions. Integrating visual and nonvisual sensory feedback correlating to the physical effort of wheelchair propulsion has been found to augment the perception of self-motion within the virtual world and so can create an effective instrument for use in the study of wheelchair accessibility within the built environment. This project represents a collaborative effort between architects and bioengineers engaged in research related to platform design, construction, and interfacing, while testing and evaluation has been accomplished with the assistance of user groups.

We report on the design issues of the User Interface for the MINIMAN system, a micro-robot with a sub millimetre precision manipulator. We introduce the project and its specifications alongside the requirements for the User Interface. The aim is to implement a semi-autonomous, computer vision controlled micro-robot, with a powerful interface. Having the user on a different scale than the robot is equivalent in terms of the user interface to a telecontrol configuration even if the user and the robot are located in the same room. Such a configuration requires a user/robot control loop, integrated in the interface, which address the following issues: The perception by the user of the current situation so that he become aware of what is the state of the robot and of the environment, the presentation of the possible actions and the mean to initiate them so that the user can plan and schedule his actions, and finally a feedback to the user when the robot has performed an action which lets the user become aware of the resulting effects of his actions. We have studied different approaches to the design of the user interface resulting from the need for a user-friendly robot destined to an industrial environment. The approaches of a particular interest are: Graphical User Interface, web interface and Virtual Environment. Although partially implemented at this stage they are described with analysis.

The implementation of Virtual Environments has often been used within the educational domain. This study adopts a Virtual Environment (VE) setting for the specific purpose of teaching the Islamic prayer to primary school children. The interactive Islamic Prayer (iIP) system has been designed for the Xbox 360 Kinect and covers the various movements of the prayer in sequence. In doing so, the objective is to evaluate whether it would facilitate a "user-friendly" experience for the students, through direct interaction of mimicking the displayed movements during the prayer. Through a quantitative analysis of the participants' learning experiences, this study investigates the importance of designing and developing training software for the purpose of teaching the Islamic prayer, particularly in relation to those that adopt a Virtual Environment setting. As part of the data analysis, questionnaires were given to the participants to evaluate the usability, usefulness and overall learning experience of the iIP software. The results revealed participants held a positive perception and experience towards the iIP software and felt that this approach (learning by doing) was effective in helping them memorise the sequential prayer movements.

Psychological ownership defines how we behave in and interact with the social world and the objects around us. Shared Augmented Reality (shared AR) may challenge conventional understanding of psychological ownership because virtual objects created by one user in a social place are available for other participants to see, interact with, and edit. Moreover, confusion may arise when one user attaches a virtual object in a shared AR environment onto the physical object that is owned by a different user. The goal of this study is to investigate tensions around psychological ownership in shared AR. Drawing on prior work, we developed a conceptualization of psychological ownership in shared AR in terms of five underlying dimensions: possession, control, identity, responsibility, and territoriality. We studied several shared AR scenarios through a laboratory experiment that was intended to highlight normative tensions. We divided participants into pairs, whereby one participant in each pair created the virtual object (object-creator) and placed it over the other person's (space proprietor) physical object or space. We recorded participants? perceptions of psychological ownership along the 5 dimensions through surveys and interviews. Our results reveal that the paired participants failed to form a mutual understanding of ownership over the virtual objects. In addition, the introduction of virtual objects called into question participants? sense of psychological ownership over the physical articles to which the virtual objects were attached. Building on our results, we offer a set of design principles for shared AR environments, intended specifically to alleviate psychological ownership-related concerns. Herein, we also discuss the implications of our findings for research and practice in this field.

Nowadays, the use of technology to improve teaching and learning experiences in the classroom has been promoted. One of these technologies is augmented reality, which allows overlaying layers of virtual information on real scene with the aim of increasing the perception the user has of reality. In the educational context augmented reality have proved to offer several advantages, i.e. increasing learning engagement and increasing understanding of some topics, especially when spatial skills are involved. Contents deployed in an augmented reality application are of two types, static, i.e. text, or dynamic, i.e. animations. As far as we know no research project has assessed how the type of content, static or dynamic, can affect the student learning experience in augmented reality applications. In this article the development and evaluation of an augmented reality application using static and dynamic content is described. In order to determine how the type of content affects the learning experience of the student, an experimental design in which the student interact with the application, using static and dynamic contents, for learning topics related with an electronic fundamentals course was performed. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier B.V.

Haptic feedbacks are usually used to provide a sensation of interaction with virtual or distant objects. These feedbacks give an access to the physical properties or constraints of these objects in a given environment. In the present study, we wondered if a haptic feedback in the hands can provide an enhanced sensation of whole-body self-motion in virtual worlds. We designed two experiments where subjects were visually immersed in a moving virtual environment and exposed, in parallel, to a force feedback stimulation in hands coherent with the virtual camera motion. In the first experiment, the motion was in a straight line combined with a force feedback acting only on Z-axis (longitudinal) and with an amplitude proportional to the acceleration of the virtual camera. We showed that the visuo-haptic stimulation produces a higher sensation of self-motion compared to the visual feedback alone. In the second experiment, we tested our method with a more complex virtual camera trajectory, inducing an acceleration vector of the virtual camera owning components in each 3D axis. Based on the difference of orientation between the velocity and acceleration vectors of the camera, we showed that the force feedback, providing the most important sensation of self-motion, has the same 3D orientation and is proportional in magnitude to the acceleration of the virtual camera. These results highlight the way visual and haptic cues interact together to provide a self-motion sensation. Taken together our results suggest new applications of force-feedback devices in VR, for the purpose of enhancing self-motion sensations.

This article investigates the use of 3D immersive virtual environments and 3D prints for interaction with past material culture over traditional observation without manipulation. Our work is motivated by studies in heritage, museum, and cognitive sciences indicating the importance of object manipulation for understanding present and ancient artifacts. While virtual immersive environments and 3D prints have started to be incorporated in heritage research and museum displays as a way to provide improved manipulation experiences, little is known about how these new technologies affect the perception of our past. This article provides first results obtained with three experiments designed to investigate the benefits and tradeoffs in using these technologies. Our results indicate that traditional museum displays limit the experience with past material culture, and reveal how our sample of participants favor tactile and immersive 3D virtual experiences with artifacts over visual non-manipulative experiences with authentic objects.

Natural and comfortable visual experience is critical to the success of metaverse, which has recently drawn worldwide attention. However, due to the vergence-accommodation conflict (VAC), most augmented reality (AR) or virtual reality (VR) displays on the market today can easily cause visual discomfort or eyestrain to users. Being able to resolve the VAC, light field display is commonly believed to be the ultimate display for metaverse. Similar to conventional near-eye AR displays, a near-eye light field AR display consists of three basic components: light source, projection unit, and eyepiece. Although the same light source can be used in both kinds of displays, the projection unit and the eyepiece of a near-eye light field AR display call for a new design to preserve the structure of light field when it reaches user's retina. The primary focus of this paper is on the eyepiece design for a near-eye light field AR display. In consideration of the compact form factor and wide field of view, the birdbath architecture, which consists of a beam splitter and a combiner, is selected as the basis of our eyepiece design. We optimize the birdbath eyepiece for the light field projection module produced by PetaRay Inc. The birdbath eyepiece receives the light field emitted from the light field projection module and projects it fully into the user's eye. Our design preserves the structure of light field and hence allows virtual objects at different depths to be properly perceived. In addition, the eyepiece design leads to a compact form factor for the near-eye light field AR display. Specifically, our eyepiece is designed by optimizing the tradeoff between the eyebox and the depth of focus (DOF) of the near-eye light field AR display. The resulting DOF allows the user to have a clear and sharp perception of any virtual object in the working range, which is from 30 cm to infinity. In addition, we optimize the entrance pupil position and the F-number of the eyepiece according to the exit pupil position and the divergence angle of the light field projection module. This way, the eyepiece is able to preserve the structure of light field, meaning that the angular relation between light rays coming from the same object point in space is preserved. To demonstrate the performance of our birdbath eyepiece, we use the Human Eye Model-Liou & Brennan (JOSA A 08/97) to simulate the image formation process.

In order to integrate the concept of intangible cultural heritage (ICH) protection into the construction of smart cities, realize the organic integration of smart cities and cultural heritage, and improve the cultural experience of urban residents and tourists, this study explores an interactive design scheme of smart cities application interface applied to ICH protection to meet the needs of protection and inheritance. Firstly, the ICH of Chongqing is sorted out and classified. The ICHrelated APP interfaces in the market are analyzed through investigation. Secondly, an image recognition algorithm of ICH based on deep learning (DL) technology is proposed and applied in APP to realize automatic recognition and introduction of ICH. Finally, a set of APP interface interaction design schemes is designed based on user habits and visual feelings to enhance user experience. The experimental results reveal: (1) The model for recognizing ICH images using the convolutional neural network (CNN) has higher recognition accuracy, recall, and F1 value than the model without CNNs; (2) After incorporating transfer learning (TL) into the model, the recognition accuracy, recall, and F1 value of the model have further improved; (3) The survey results show that the Chongqing ICH APP interface system based on DL technology, user habits, and visual perception performs better in terms of user experience, usability, and other aspects. This study aims to design an APP interface system for the Chongqing ICH based on DL technology, user habits, and visual perception, to improve user experience and usability. Future research directions can further optimize image recognition algorithms to improve ICH's recognition accuracy and efficiency. Meanwhile, new technologies, such as virtual reality, are combined to enhance users' interactive experience and immersion.

This research is triggered by the lack of studies of spiritual meaning as content for digital games. In addition, the idea of art creation is also initiated by the visual sensation of the Borobudur temple that felt by the researcher in his childhood until now. This visual sensation could be deemed as dynamics sublimation of the Borobudur. According to egotistic reflection, these dynamics sublimation were influenced by researcher's visual perception due to his experiences of having life full of struggle. And then got a vision of life enlightenment as related as philosophy of Buddhism in the visualization of the Borobudur temple. Basically, this spiritual experience will be developed as main concept of the game design with virtual reality technology. The whole idea of this study is investigating the contribution of spiritual element of the Borobudur to the aesthetics of interaction. However, this paper focuses on preliminary of the practice-led research methodology of VR Borobudur art creation. Exploratory hypothesis is the spiritual of life enlightenment could be employed as contents of digital game of VR Borobudur. The end of the project will use the VR Borobudur for play test observation as one of method to investigating the contribution of the aesthetics of interaction in the game with virtual reality technology. In initial summary, the researcher estimates the design method of interactive digital arts creation based on religious substance need more depth understanding in synthesis of spiritual philosophy and cultural studies.

Augmented Reality (AR) seamlessly integrates the real environment with virtual objects, enriching users' information perception. The application of AR in personal and vehicular navigation tasks facilitates the evolution of navigation systems from two-dimensional (2D) to three-dimensional (3D) representations, incorporating an egocentric viewpoint. Spatial knowledge, specific navigation objectives, navigational skills, and the navigational symbols plays pivotal roles in map utilization, encompassing self-localization, proximity, navigation, and event awareness. The representation of symbols in navigation tasks relies on static and dynamic or animated visual cartographic variables. In this context, our research focuses on evaluating symbols used for depicting routes and landmarks in AR systems during personal navigation tasks. The experiments investigated the representation of routes, exploring variations in route line thickness, the presence or absence of border-color, fill color, and the speed of arrows moving along the route line. The findings of the study reveal that thinner route lines significantly contribute to enhance perception of surroundings, blue fill color exhibit superior performance compared to traditional navigation system colors, and volunteers noted that the arrow animation speed noticeably affected their perceptions of elements within the scenario. These insights contribute to understanding of how visual variables influence user preferences and experiences in AR-based navigation tasks.

The human sense of smell is powerful. However, the way we use smell as an interaction modality in human-computer interaction (HCI) is limited. We lack a common reference point to guide designers' choices when using smell. Here, we map out an olfactory design space to provide designers with such guidance. We identified four key design features: (i) chemical, (ii) emotional, (iii) spatial, and (iv) temporal. Each feature defines a building block for smell-based interaction design and is grounded in a review of the relevant scientific literature. We then demonstrate the design opportunities in three application cases. Each application (i.e., one desktop, two virtual reality implementations) highlights the design choices alongside the implementation and evaluation possibilities in using smell. We conclude by discussing how identifying those design features facilitates a healthy growth of this research domain and contributes to an intermediate-level knowledge space. Finally, we discuss further challenges the HCI community needs to tackle.

The driver/passenger role in autonomous driving experiences is an important subject that is concerned with how these systems will interact and communicate with the human stakeholder. Even though self-driving technologies have made rapid progress in recent years, their success will depend on ethics, safe capabilities and user acceptance. The overall satisfaction resulting from the interaction between humans, these technologies and their evaluation in simulators can help industry to improve their design. Such evaluations can be based on user's perceived Quality of Experience (QoE). The impact of the quality features that compound VR environments is an important factor to understand. Sense of depth, texture quality and resolution are some examples that influence the perceived quality of the simulation and immersion levels. This demonstration promotes a VR autonomous driving experience in one street of Athlone, Ireland. The application will be presented in two different formats: photogrammetry, a technique that uses photos to provide realistic 3D content, and secondly non-photorealistic simulated environment. Further investigations will be carried out to understand factors that enable the highest immersive experience in autonomous vehicles considering feedback modalities between the car and its users.

The set of physical and sensitive phenomena that interacts with the urban morphology acts on the resulting perception from the users of a place. Its study and representation provides elements beyond the aesthetics aspects that can allow a better understanding of the space and future urban projects. We aim to analyze the effects of three different wind representations in terms of perception and sense of presence in virtual reality (VR). We focus on the following conditions: (R) reference scene with the audiovisual representation of the mechanical effects of the wind on the elements of the context, (V) reference scene plus the visualization of the wind flow, present (among others) in the architecture field, (T) reference scene plus tactile restitution of wind and eventually (V+T) assembling all previous conditions. For the experiment, we present to the participants (R), then (V) followed by (T), and finish with (V+T). 37 participants evaluated 12 different stop points (divided into four routes in the same simulated street), where they had to determine the perceived wind force and direction concerning the four different conditions (each one corresponding to one route). At the end of each route, participants evaluated their sense of presence in the VR scene. Our analysis showed significant effects of tactile restitution over the visual effects used in the study, both for understanding wind properties and for increasing the sense of presence in the VR scene. In terms of wind direction, (T) reduced the estimation error by 27% compared to (V). Concerning wind force, the reduction was 9.8%. As far as presence was concerned, (T) increased the sense of presence by 12.2% compared to (V).

Swarm robotics is a natural candidate for monitoring large and complex environments. With the aid of a human who is directly involved in monitoring and search using a teleoperated robot, swarms of autonomous robots can solve problems related to navigation and changing objectives. In this context, understanding the role of nonverbal interactions have the potential to enable rapid and bidirectional communication between humans and robots. Quantifying such interactions however, requires a repeatable and engaging experimental setup that can track human action and cognition. This paper describes a desktop virtual reality testbed designed specifically to quantify human actions, perception, and cognitive load in real time during a monitoring mission. Motivated by recent deployment of underwater robots to monitor invasive species, the testbed is designed to mimic an underwater environment within the Great Lakes with five species of fish whose appearance, locomotion, and behavior are modeled based on videos from the field. Brain activity and pupillometry data are recorded synchronously in real time to aid in the measurement of cognitive load of the human operator. To quantify human perception, empirical data of visual acuity from the literature is used to model virtual object recognition. The capabilities of the testbed are evaluated in terms of frame rate achieved as a function of number of fish and robots in the environment, and demonstrated through two examples highlighting possible uses in human-swarm interaction studies. Copyright (c) 2022 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)

We present a literature review and a toolbox to help the reader find the best method to design for and assess Sense of Embodiment (SoE) in several application scenarios. The main examples are based on teleoperation applications, due the challenges that these applications present. The three embodiment components that we consider to describe SoE are sense of ownership, sense of agency, and sense of self-location. We relate each embodiment component to the most often used assessment measures, test tasks, and application scenarios. The toolbox is built to efficiently design, test, and assess an embodiment experience, following seven concrete steps. We provide four main contributions: 1) a literature review of the assessment measures and strategies used to measure SoE; 2) a systematic categorization of SoE measures; 3) A categorization of the main test tasks used in SoE assessment; and 4) a toolbox consisting of seven steps as guidance to design SoE. We included several examples and tables to guide the user step by step through the design of an embodiment experience. Z8 0

The recent interest in the use of Immersive Virtual Reality (IVR) in education seems to correspond with the increased affordability, accessibility and functionality of IVR hardware and software. IVR has the potential to enhance immersion, improve spatial capabilities, promote empathy, increase motivation and possibly improve learning outcomes. However, the extent to which teachers capitalise on these potentials in the future depends their perceptions of IVR and their behavioural intentions to use it. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify relevant factors and influences relating to preservice teachers' behavioural intention to use IVR, using the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology 2 (UTAUT2) model. Confirmatory factor analysis revealed that UTAUT2 provided a suitable model to describe preservice teachers' perceptions of IVR on all dimensions (performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions, hedonic motivation, price value, habit and behavioural intention), with hedonic motivation receiving the highest scores and habit scoring the lowest. Interview responses revealed the reasons for the substantial variation in preservice teacher perceptions, which depended on a range of external- ("first-order"), internal- ("second-order") and design ("third-order")-related issues. Implications for schools, educational leaders and teacher education are discussed.

How the brain functions during behavioural tasks conducted in virtual reality (VR) remains largely unresolved. This issue is extremely important both in terms of establishing the benefits of VR through basic science, as well as for future optimization of tasks conducted in VR environments. Here, the authors describe their current work to develop a testing platform for conducting VR experiments that can be probed by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure brain activity. Examples involving human spatial navigation and data glove operation illustrate the technical feasibility of the approach and introduce thought-provoking observations of brain activation patterns. Future research directions for combined use of VR and fMRI are also discussed.

Redirected walking allows users to naturally locomote within virtual environments that are larger than or different in layout from the physically tracked space. In this paper, we proposed novel optimization-driven alignment-based and Artificial Potential Field (APF) redirected walking controllers, as well as an integrated version of the two. The first two controllers employ objective functions of one variable, which is the included angle between the user's heading vector and the target vector originating from the user's physical position. The optimized angle represents the physical cell that is best aligned with the virtual cell or the target vector on which the designated point has the minimum APF value. The derived optimized angle is used to finely set RDW gains. The two objective functions can be optimized simultaneously, leading to an integrated controller that is potentially able to take advantage of the alignment-based controller and APF-based controller. Through extensive simulation-based studies, we found that the proposed alignment-based and integrated controllers significantly outperform the state-of-the-art controllers and the proposed APF based controller in terms of the number of resets. Furthermore, the proposed alignment controller and integrated controller provide a more uniform likelihood distribution across distance between resets, as compared to the other controllers.

Objective: This study investigated the effectiveness of force augmentation in haptic perception tasks. Background: Considerable engineering effort has been devoted to developing force augmented reality (AR) systems to assist users in delicate procedures like microsurgery. In contrast, far less has been done to characterize the behavioral outcomes of these systems, and no research has systematically examined the impact of sensory and perceptual processes on force augmentation effectiveness. Method: Using a handheld force magnifier as an exemplar haptic AR, we conducted three experiments to characterize its utility in the perception of force and stiffness. Experiments 1 and 2 measured, respectively, the user's ability to detect and differentiate weak force (<0.5 N) with or without the assistance of the device and compared it to direct perception. Experiment 3 examined the perception of stiffness through the force augmentation. Results: The user's ability to detect and differentiate small forces was significantly improved by augmentation at both threshold and suprathreshold levels. The augmentation also enhanced stiffness perception. However, although perception of augmented forces matches that of the physical equivalent for weak forces, it falls off with increasing intensity. Conclusion: The loss in the effectiveness reflects the nature of sensory and perceptual processing. Such perceptual limitations should be taken into consideration in the design and development of haptic AR systems to maximize utility. Application: The findings provide useful information for building effective haptic AR systems, particularly for use in microsurgery.

Designing haptics is a difficult task especially when the user attempts to design a sensation from scratch. In the fields of visual and audio design, designers often use a large library of examples for inspiration, supported by intelligent systems like recommender systems. In this work, we contribute a corpus of 10 000 mid-air haptic designs (500 hand-designed sensations augmented 20x to create 10 000), and we use it to investigate a novel method for both novice and experienced hapticians to use these examples in mid-air haptic design. The RecHap design tool uses a neural-network based recommendation system that suggests pre-existing examples by sampling various regions of an encoded latent space. The tool also provides a graphical user interface for designers to visualize the sensation in 3D view, select previous designs, and bookmark favourites, all while feeling designs in real-time. We conducted a user study with 12 participants suggesting that the tool enables people to quickly explore design ideas and experience them immediately. The design suggestions encouraged collaboration, expression, exploration, and enjoyment, which improved creativity support.

This paper discusses the challenges in the collaboration between human operators and industrial robots for assembly operations focusing on safety and simplified interaction. A case study is presented, involving perception technologies for the robot in conjunction with wearable devices used by the operator. In terms of robot perception, a manual guidance module, an air pressor contact sensor namely skin, and a vision system for recognition and tracking of objects have been developed and integrated. Concerning the wearable devices, an advanced user interface including audio and haptic commands accompanied by augmented reality technology are used to support the operator and provide awareness by visualizing information related to production and safety aspects. In parallel, safety functionalities are implemented through collision detection technologies such as a safety skin and safety monitored regions delimiting the area of the robot activities. The complete system is coordinated under a common integration platform and it is validated in a case study of the white goods industry.

A haptic interface designed for exploration of unknown environments by a visually impaired person is presented. The main feature of this interface is that it is based on a single actuated wire, and therefore is a defective device, being three the minimum number of actuators for 3D environments. The defectivity of the device is partially compensated by using proper control strategies. Experiments on a laboratory setup are presented and discussed.

The idiosyncrasies of augmented reality bring us advantages, as shown in literature, and a great assortment of options. On the other hand, due to its relationship with the real surroundings, it may be a challenge to deal with when evaluating these systems, especially if the intention is to understand feelings of presence-like: There are a lot of variables in the equation. This study aims to analyse a state of the art of AR evaluations that conducted presence-related feelings and discusses limitations and remarks for further research. The current research is able to state that questionnaires are the most used tool to ascertain presence-like feelings, and that mobile devices have been the preferred device to implement AR applications. The studies are fairly divided between 1) analysing a single scenario to ascertain the variable at study, and 2) creating two or more scenarios to make a comparison. When comparing two or more scenarios, a between-subjects design is preferred among researchers. Additionally, it has been identified as of paramount importance the need to study and objectively measuring the ratio between the virtual content and the real scenario in the experience, as well as to deeply research the interaction between the real scenario and the virtual elements. The importance of the types of interaction in AR applications is also highlighted.

Metaverse is a new emerging platform that enables users to interact with each other and engage in many activities inside a collective virtual shared space. The metaverse is rapidly evolving, and it is essential to understand the perception and attitude of its potential users. Therefore, this research aims to study the users of the metaverse and obtain their opinions on some of the key variables of the metaverse. These variables include the core metaverse concept, readiness, ease of use, intention to belong to metaverse, intention to adopt, and value realization. We designed an online questionnaire that aims to measure these variables. Then, a deep analysis of the collected data was conducted using various exploratory descriptive statistics on all participants. Subsequently, we performed further descriptive and correlation analysis on the participants from Saudi Arabia, which resulted in clustering participants into three groups. The result of this work can help in understanding the current and potential users of the metaverse, especially the users from Saudi Arabia. This study will consequently help in developing the metaverse space, enhancing its features, and providing users with the best experiences. Our research contributes to the theory of the metaverse by justifying a bold value-based framework for metaverse adoption. This study also introduces three clusters, Skeptical, Unaware, and Optimists, of potential users of metaverse platforms, providing a clear description of each group.

Virtual reality (VR) systems have the potential to be an innovation in the field of e-learning. Starting with fully functional e-classes, VR technologies can be used to build entire e-campuses. The power of VR is that it allows for stronger contact with students than computer-mediated technology. Deceptive behaviour, both verbal and nonverbal, refers to intentional activities designed to deceive others. Students often engage in dishonest practices to make progress. Whether it is cheating on an exam, copying another student's essay, or inflating their GPA, the motivation for cheating is rarely simply a lack of preparation. Even though some may see academic dishonesty as an asset, the reality is that it can have major consequences. This poster demonstrates the findings from a study of students' deceitful behaviour during a test in VR and in real-life situations. For this user study, 22 volunteers were invited to test, with each experiment involving exactly two participants and the examiner present in the room. Students were invited to take two tests: one in VR and one on a laptop. Their goal was to score as many points as possible by simulating a real-world online exam. Participants were requested to complete questionnaires during and after each experiment, which assisted in collecting additional data for this study. The results indicate that the amount of cheating that happened in VR and on a laptop was exactly the same.

This paper engages the users' behaviour, their perceptions of use in sensory gardens and the reality faced by practitioners designing for these gardens, based on case-studies in the UK. Further investigation will be undertaken at Al-Bukhary International University in Malaysia once the completion of the country's first sensory garden. Interview outcomes showed practitioners concurred on the design aspects that encourage the use of the area while the school staff had no strong views on the aesthetic value. Observation outcomes showed pathway layout encourages behaviour, use and time spent in sensory areas. These outcomes are a significant argument in the conclusion. (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

Advanced manufacturing techniques, such as additive manufacturing, enable the design of increasingly complex components for a wide range of industrial applications. However, this complexity makes qualification of the parts, determining whether a part is within some margin of error from the initial design, difficult. To inspect and qualify complex internal geometries that are not accessible with an external probe, parts are typically scanned with computed tomography (CT), and manually compared to the computer-aided design (CAD) model using visual inspections. Matching the CAD model to the 3D reconstructed object is challenging in a traditional desktop environment due to the lack of depth perception and 3D interaction. An additional challenge comes from the geometric complexity of CAD meshes and large-scale CT scans. We present a virtual reality (VR) system for manual qualification, providing a novel defect visualization method. First, we describe a semiautomatic CAD-to-Scan Registration approach in VR using a finite element mesh. Second, we introduce the Defect Box, which enables full-resolution inspection for massive scans and CAD-CT comparison of local defect regions. Finally, our system includes intuitive 3D Metrology methods that enable natural interactions for the measurement of features and defects in VR. We demonstrate our approach on both real and synthetic data and discuss feedback from four expert users in nondestructive qualification.

This paper presents the first step of a research programme implemented by IFSTTAR in order to develop an integrative simulation platform able to support a Human Centred Design (HCD) method for virtual design of driving assistances. This virtual platform, named COSMO-SiVIC, implements a COgnitive Simulation MOdel of the DRIVEr (i.e. COSMODRIVE) into a Vehicle-Environment-Sensors platform (named SiVIC, for Simulateur Vehicule-Infrastructure-Capteur). From this simulation tool based on a computational driver model, the design costs of driving assistances is expected to reduce in the future, and the end-users needs during the design process are also better taken into account. This article is mainly focussed on the description of the driver model developed and implemented on the SiVIC virtual platform, which is only the first step towards a future Virtual HCD integrated tool. The first section will discuss the research context and objective, and the second one will present the theoretical background in cognitive sciences supporting our driver modelling approach. Then, the SiVIC tool is used in this research as a methodological and technical support for both empirical data collection among human drivers and as a virtual road environment to be interfaced with the COSMODRIVE model. In the result section, the functional architecture of COSMO-SIVIC (based on three complementary modules of Perception, Decision and Action) will be described, and an example of virtual simulation of human driver's errors due to visual distraction while driving will be presented. The perspectives concerning future use of COSMO-SIVIC for virtual HCD will be then discussed in the conclusion section. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

The study compared human perceptions of height, danger, and anxiety as well as skin conductance and heart rate responses and postural instability effects, in real and virtual height environments. The 24 participants (12 men, 12 women), whose average age was 23.6 years, performed "lean-over-the-railing" and standing tasks on real and comparable virtual balconies, using a surround-screen virtual reality (SSVR) system. The results indicate that the virtual display of elevation provided realistic perceptual experience and induced some physiological responses and postural instability effects comparable to those found in a real environment. It appears that a simulation of elevated work environment in a SSVR system, although with reduced visual fidelity, is a valid tool for safety research. Potential applications of this study include the design of virtual environments that will help in safe evaluation of human performance at elevation, identification of risk factors leading to fall incidents, and assessment of new fall prevention strategies.

This paper presents a novel framework for designing and simulating the decentralized control of Building Management Systems (BMSs) based on the concept of virtual smart meters. The proposed approach uses simulation in real-time to allow building managers and users to have a thorough perception of the power consumption, which establishes the basis of Demand Side Management for energy-efficient buildings. It will be demonstrated that predefined power usage scenarios can be simulated in the closed-loop model and the results can be intuitively analyzed. More importantly, the decentralized control logics of the BMS subsystems can be developed independently from the deployment configurations.

The recent momentum in aerial manipulation has led to an interest in developing virtual reality interfaces for aerial physical interaction tasks with simple, intuitive, and reliable control and perception. However, this requires the use of expensive subsystems and there is still a research gap between interface design, user evaluations and the effect on aerial manipulation tasks. Here, we present a methodology for low-cost available drone systems with a Unity-based interface for immersive FPV teleoperation. We applied our approach in a flight track where a cluttered environment is used to simulate a demanding aerial manipulation task inspired by forestry drones and canopy sampling. Through objective measures of teleoperation performance and subjective questionnaires, we found that operators performed worse using the FPV interface and had higher perceived levels of cognitive load when compared to traditional interface design. Additional analysis of physiological measures highlighted that objective stress levels and cognitive load were also influenced by task duration and perceived performance, providing an insight into what interfaces could target to support teleoperator requirements during aerial manipulation tasks.

This paper presents our work on foot-based interfaces that stimulate the plantar surface with vibrations. These vibrations convey spatial and temporal information that could be exploited in several domains such as virtual reality, sensory augmentation, sensory substitution, rehabilitation, robotics, games and entertainment, among others. One of the most challenging applications is perhaps the assistance of the visually impaired: vibrations can be perceived by users as cardinal directions that assist their navigation. Three prototypes of foot-based interfaces have been developed seeking to optimize user perception. Designs, prototypes, and perceptual results are presented and discussed. Results show the potentials of podotactile stimulation in assistive devices.

This study examines auditory distance discrimination in cinematic virtual reality. It uses controlled stimuli with audio-visual distance variations, to determine if mismatch stimuli are detected. It asks if visual conditions - either equally or unequally distanced from the user, and environmental conditions - either a reverberant space as opposed to a freer field, impact accuracy in discrimination between congruent and incongruent aural and visual cues. A Repertory Grid Technique-derived design is used, whereby participant-specific constructs are translated into numerical ratings. Discrimination of auditory event mismatch was improved for stimuli with varied visual-event distances, though not for equidistant visual events. This may demonstrate that visual cues alert users to matches and mismatches.

3D mixed reality displays increase accessibility in personal transportation. Personalized Head-up Display (HUD) layouts and the provision of visual depth cues in the replay field can additionally increase safety and security by retaining the driver's focus on the road. Current options for commercial displays fail to provide visual depth cues based on their optical system component arrangements. This work presents a compact mixed-reality volumetric display using virtual lenses, a 4K Spatial Light Modulator (SLM), a combiner, and fiber lasers. The generated mixed reality holographic head-up display aims to contextually enhance the user's perception of the real world with additional information without presenting distractions such as wearable devices or small projections on the windshield. Hence, the optical assembly was designed to be compact such that optical lenses were mostly replaced with virtual Fresnel lenses and the algorithms were accelerated for real-time utilization. Additionally, the accuracy and precision of the replay field results were enhanced with the introduction of pigtailed fiber lasers to reduce speckles. This work has demonstrated 3D ultra-high-definition compact mixed reality holographic replay field results for various applications due to accuracy and precision.

Surprisingly little scientific research has been conducted on the effects of colour and lightness on the perception of spaciousness. Practitioners and architects typically suggest that a room's ceiling appears higher when it is painted lighter than the walls, while darker ceilings appear lower. Employing a virtual reality setting, we studied the effects of the lightness of different room surfaces on perceived height in two psychophysical experiments. Observers judged the height of rooms varying in physical height as well as in the lightness of ceiling, floor, and walls. Experiment 1 showed the expected increase of perceived height with increases in ceiling lightness. Unexpectedly, the perceived height additionally increased with wall lightness, and the effects of wall lightness and ceiling lightness were roughly additive, incompatible with a simple effect of the lightness contrast between the ceiling and the walls. Experiment 2 demonstrated that the floor lightness has no significant effect on perceived height, and that the total brightness of the room is not the critical factor influencing the perceived height. Neither can the results be explained by previously reported effects of brightness on apparent depth or perceived distance.

In the city life with increasingly advanced technology, sociality tends to be more subtle. Although people, who have remote interpersonal intimacy, can watch or hear from each other, they cannot feel the real emotions from the other party. Especially, breath means existence in intimacy, and it is conductive to soothing emotion. This paper proposed a pair of interactive breathing sofa systems to communicate with each partner's breath tempo in real time. Also, the shared semi-virtual space and telepresence are established to enhance the emotional exchange and resonance in long-distance relationship. Each sofa can measure the user's breathing tempo and send it to the partner's sofa. In addition to strengthening emotional communication of long-distance relationship, the installation aims to design and realize the enhancement of remote emotional interaction, bio-signals communication, telepresence, and telepathy of ExtraSensory Perception.

A novel approach was used to evaluate the impact of retail store layouts on consumer responses, by triangulating subjective feedback, behavioural data and electroencephalogram (EEG) data in the context of a virtual environment. Participants (n = 45) were assigned to one of three store layout conditions. While there were no significant differences in participants subjective/conscious evaluations of the layout complexity, they demonstrated reduced product-recall scores, and greater cognitive workload in visual/spatial-processing brain regions, in store environments with more complex layouts. This study explores the correlation between perceived visual complexity and perceived store attractiveness and examines how pleasure and processing fluency mediate this relationship. The results demonstrate a strong association between these factors, with processing fluency playing a more significant role in mediating the effect (78%) compared to pleasure (22%). Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the psychological factors that influence consumer perceptions of store environments. The findings demonstrate the value of an EEG/VR-based approach in studying human behaviour during the building design process for identifying neural mechanisms and responses that self-reported feedback may obscure. The result of this study has implications for building designers and retailers, suggesting that simpler store layouts might be more effective in terms of product recall and reduced cognitive workload.

Haptic information significantly improves human awareness of objects in virtual reality. One way of presenting this information is via encountered-type haptic feedback. An advantage of encounter type feedback is that it enables physical interaction with virtual environments without the need for specialized haptic devices on the hand. Additionally, encountered-type haptics are known for being able to provide high quality contact feedback to the user. However, such systems are typically designed to be grounded (i.e., fixed to the floor). As such, they typically have bounded workspace and a limited range of possible applications. In this work, we present a novel, wearable approach to presenting a user with encountered-type haptic feedback. We realize this feedback using a wearable robotic limb that holds a plate where the user might interact with their environment. An appropriate location for the plate is determined by a novel haptic solver while control of the arm is made possible using motion trackers. The system was designed to be stable, for presenting consistent haptic feedback, while also being safe and lightweight for wearability. By making the feedback system wearable, we enable the presentation of stiff feedback while maintaining the spatial freedom and unbounded workspace of natural hand interaction. Herein, we present the design of the novel system, mechanical and safety considerations when designing a wearable encountered-type system, and an evaluation of the system. A technical evaluation of the implemented system showed that the system provides a stiffness over 25 N/m and slant angle errors under 3'. Three user studies show the limitations of haptic slant perception in humans and the quantitative and qualitative effectiveness of the current prototype system. We conclude the paper by discussing various potential applications and possible improvements that could be made to the system.

Assembly and disassembly verification plays an important role in Product Lifecycle Management (PLM). Mass customization and personalized production require greater agility of industrial manufacturers, and consequently the time consumed in assembly processes (which often dominates costs) is of growing importance. Narrow passages which commonly exist in assembly tasks become a bottleneck in the assembly planning process reducing the time saved by using virtual assembly. In this paper, we present a novel interactive motion planning methodology for virtual assembly and disassembly operations. In our method, user's manipulation with force feedback device in difficult scenario is liberated by relaxing collision constraints. The rough path is retracted by our random retraction method and then connected by BiRRT algorithm. For each user's operation, a path successfully passing through the narrow passage is presented, or geometrical interference information in failed case is provided for motion re-planning and design modification. Significant improvement for trajectory planning of non-convex object is observed in challenging 2D scenarios with narrow passages.

Purpose The purpose of this study is to understand whether increasing the number of sensory modalities being stimulated impacts consumers' in-store emotional responses (i.e. in-store enjoyment and arousal), store image perception and brand attitude. Design/methodology/approach The study used a between-subjects experimental design to examine 551 individuals' perceptions and emotional responses in four sensory modalities stimulation conditions (i.e. visual, visual-smell, visual-taste and visual-smell-taste). The study used virtual reality visualisation technology and psychophysiological measurements (i.e. skin conductance and facial expression) to improve the ecological validity of the study design. Findings The current study supports the importance of multisensory in-store atmospheric design. When increasing the number of sensory modalities being stimulated, more positive emotional responses and perceptions were recorded. Additionally, increasing the number of sensory modalities also increased perceived intensity, and perceived intensity mediate the relationship between the stimulation of multisensory modalities and perception. Research limitations/implications The study is without its limitations. For instance, the scope of the study was limited by the exclusion of auditory and haptic stimulation, the lack of manipulation of sensory intensity and the absence of sensory congruency examination. Practical implications This study contributes to retail and marketing practices by providing evidence to assist the retail design of in-store sensory cues and customer experiences. Originality/value This research uses both self-reported measures and biometric measures to test the sole effect of sensory modalities being stimulated on consumer evaluation. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this study is the first to examine store atmospheric designs with psychophysiological methodologies and an immersive, two-story-high, 180-degree-visual-field and dome-shaped display.

Recent research has shown that children's strategic ability can be improved with game. To improve strategic ability, motor coordination ability and the understanding of historical knowledge, we design an ability training game - to borrow arrows with thatched boats. In order to improve children's learning efficiency, we use deep motion perception technology as a human-computer interaction tool. Our system can allow children to control the movement of boats and interact with virtual objects in the virtual environment through hand-gesture. We can provide some strategic options, such as weather, equipment, etc. Under this new mode of educational game, children's strategic and motor coordination abilities are improved, and their understanding of historical knowledge can be also enhanced.

Augmented reality (AR) allows computer generated graphics to be overlaid in images or video captured by a camera in real time. This technology is often used to enhance perception by providing extra information or simply by enriching the experience of the user. AR offers a significant potential in many applications such as industrial, medical, education and entertainment. However, for AR to achieve the maximum potential and become fully accepted, the real and virtual objects within the user's environment must become seamlessly integrated. Three main types of problems arise when we try to achieve this effect: illumination issues, tracking difficulties and occlusion troubles. In this work we present an algorithm to handle AR occlusions in real time. Our approach uses raw depth information of the scene to realize a rough foreground / background segmentation. We use this information, as well as details from color data to estimate a blending coefficient and combine the virtual objects with the real objects into a single image. After experimenting with different scenes we show that our approach is able to produce consistent and aesthetically pleasing occlusions between virtual and real objects, with a low computational cost. Furthermore, we explore different alternatives to improving the quality of the final results while overcoming limitations of previous methods.

Purpose The virtual environment of the Voxel-Man simulator that was originally designed for virtual surgical procedures of the middle ear has been adapted to intraoral procedures To assess application of the simulator to dentistry, virtual apicectomies were chosen as the pilot-test model Methods A group of 53 dental students provided their impressions after virtual simulation of apicectomies in the Voxel-Man simulator Results Fifty-one of the 53 students recommended the virtual simulation as an additional modality in dental education The students indicated that the force feedback (e g simulation of haptic pressure), spatial 3D perception, and image resolution of the simulator were sufficient for virtual training of dental surgical procedures Conclusion The feedback from dental students involved in this pilot-test has encouraged our interdisciplinary group to continue further development of the simulator with the goal of creating new training strategies in dental and medical education (C) 2010 European Association for Cranio-Maxillo-Facial Surgery

In recent years, selfies have become popular around the world, and this has resulted in many makeup apps on Google's Android and Apple's iOS app stores. However, makeup apps can only detect users' faces and then place makeup on part of the face or add some effects. In the Google/Apple stores, some apparel marketing companies have provided apps for consumers to give some advice on the products they can wear. However, there has yet to be an application that provides help with taking pictures and saving images in a library to show consumers' dressing styles. This study designed an application to provide people with their dress styles, and we named it "Selfie Mirror". We also conducted a questionnaire of users' perception of functionality and interface for future revisions.

Postural interaction is of major importance during job interviews. While several prototypes enable users to rehearse for public speaking tasks and job interviews, few of these prototypes support subtle bodily interactions between the user and a virtual agent playing the role of an interviewer. The design of our system is informed by a multimodal corpus that was previously collected. In this paper, we explain how we were inspired by these video recordings of human interviewers to build a library of motion-captured movements that interviewers are most likely to display. We designed a fully automatic interactive virtual agent able to display these movements in response to the bodily movements of the user. Thirty-two participants presented themselves to this virtual agent during a simulated job interview. We focused on the self-presentation task of the job interview, the virtual agent being listening. Participants stood on a force platform that recorded the displacements of their center of pressure to assess the postural impact of our design. We also collected video recordings of their movements and computed the contraction index and the quantity of motion of their bodies. We explain the different hypotheses that we made concerning (1) the comparison between the performance of participants with human interviewers and the performance of participants with virtual interviewers, (2) the comparison between mirror and random postural behaviors displayed by a female versus a male virtual interviewer, and (3) the correlation between the participants' performance and their personality traits. Our results suggest that users perceive the simulated self-presentation task with the virtual interviewer as threatening and as difficult as the presentation task with the human interviewers. Furthermore, when users interact with a virtual interviewer that mirrors their postures, these users perceive the interviewer as being affiliative. Finally, a correlation analysis showed that personality traits had a significant relation to the postural behaviors and performance of the users during their presentation.

Volumetric displays provide interesting opportunities and challenges for 3D interaction and visualization, particularly when used in a highly interactive manner. We explore this area through the design and implementation of techniques for interactive direct manipulation of objects with a 3D volumetric display. Motion tracking of the user's fingers provides for direct gestural interaction with the virtual objects, through manipulations on and around the display's hemispheric enclosure. Our techniques leverage the unique features of volumetric displays, including a 360 viewing volume that enables manipulation from any viewpoint around the display, as well as natural and accurate perception of true depth information in the displayed 3D scene. We demonstrate our techniques within a prototype 3D geometric model building application.

Efforts to mitigate environmental threats are often inversely related to the magnitude of casualty, human or otherwise. This "compassion fade" can be explained, in part, by differential processing of large- versus small-scale threats: it is difficult to form empathic connections with unfamiliar masses versus singular victims. Despite robust findings, little is known about how non-human casualty is processed, and what strategies override this bias. Across four experiments, we show how embodying threatened megafauna-Loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta Caretta)-using virtual reality can offset and reverse compassion fade. After observing compassion fade during exposure to non-human casualty in virtual reality (Study 1; N = 60), we then tested a custom virtual reality simulation designed to facilitate body transfer with a threatened Loggerhead sea turtle (Study 2; N = 98). Afterwards, a field experiment (Study 3; N = 90) testing the simulation with varied number of victims showed body transfer offset compassion fade. Lastly, a fourth study (N = 25) found that charitable giving among users embodying threatened wildlife was highest when exposed to one versus several victims, though this effect was reversed if victims were of a different species. The findings demonstrate how animal embodiment in virtual reality alters processing of environmental threats and non-human casualty, thereby influencing conservation outcomes.

This study used augmented reality (AR) to test the effects of perceived social presence, perceived media richness, media empathy and social capital on intentions to participate in prosocial, community-oriented behaviors in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, which appeared to be rife with fear. Specifically, a structural model was employed to assess the hypothesized relationships based on questionnaire data from 476 respondents, who were divided into high and low fear groups. The findings revealed that perceived media richness and social presence both had a significant influence on media empathy, which in turn affected users' perceptions of social capital. Social capital predicted users' community participation intentions, which included intentions to donate. The paths from perceived social presence and perceived media richness to social capital were not significant, and media empathy did not directly influence prosocial, community participation intentions. There were no significant differences between the high and low COVID-19 fear groups. Overall, this study confirmed the importance of leveraging media richness and social presence to create media content designed to prompt users to identify with those who are negatively affected by the cause, so that media empathy will be boosted. Media empathy should be increased in a manner that leads users to feel connected to a larger community, so that perceptions of social capital will be boosted and will lead to prosocial, community participation activities and donations to the cause.

This paper describes a set of visual cues of contact designed to improve the interactive manipulation of virtual objects in industrial assembly/maintenance simulations. These visual cues display information of proximity, contact and effort between virtual objects when the user manipulates a part inside a digital mock-up. The set of visual cues encloses the apparition of glyphs (arrow, disk, or sphere) when the manipulated object is close or in contact with another part of the virtual environment. Light sources can also be added at the level of contact points. A filtering technique is proposed to decrease the number of glyphs displayed at the same time. Various effects-such as change in color, change in size, and deformation of shape-can be applied to the glyphs as a function of proximity with other objects or amplitude of the contact forces. A preliminary evaluation was conducted to gather the subjective preference of a group of participants during the simulation of an automotive assembly operation. The collected questionnaires showed that participants globally appreciated our visual cues of contact. The changes in color appeared to be preferred concerning the display of distances and proximity information. Size changes and deformation effects appeared to be preferred in terms of perception of contact forces between the parts. Last, light sources were selected to focus the attention of the user on the contact areas.

In this paper, we propose a novel method to construct an optical see-through light-field near-eye display (OST LF-NED) by using a discrete lenslet array (DLA). The DLA is used as a spatial light modulator (SLM) to generate dense light field of three-dimensional (3D) scenes inside the user's eyebox of the system and provide correct focus cues to the user. A corresponding light-field image rendering method is also proposed and demonstrated. The light emitted from the real objects passes through the transparent region of the display panel and the planar area of the DLA successively without redirection, so the user can have a clear view of the real scene as well as the virtual information. The stray light that may degrade the image quality has been analyzed in detail. The experimental result shows that the proposed method is capable of obtaining a corrected depth perception of the virtual information in augmented reality (AR) applications. (C) 2018 Optical Society of America under the terms of the OSA Open Access Publishing Agreement

Media streaming, with an edge-cloud setting, has been adopted for a variety of applications such as entertainment, visualization, and design. Unlike video/audio streaming where the content is usually consumed passively, virtual reality applications require 3D assets stored on the edge to facilitate frequent edge-side interactions such as object manipulation and viewpoint movement. Compared to audio and video streaming, 3D asset streaming often requires larger data sizes and yet lower latency to ensure sufficient rendering quality, resolution, and latency for perceptual comfort. Thus, streaming 3D assets faces remarkably additional than streaming audios/videos, and existing solutions often suffer from long loading time or limited quality. To address this challenge, we propose a perceptually-optimized progressive 3D streaming method for spatial quality and temporal consistency in immersive interactions. On the cloud-side, our main idea is to estimate perceptual importance in 2D image space based on user gaze behaviors, including where they are looking and how their eyes move. The estimated importance is then mapped to 3D object space for scheduling the streaming priorities for edge-side rendering. Since this computational pipeline could be heavy, we also develop a simple neural network to accelerate the cloud-side scheduling process. We evaluate our method via subjective studies and objective analysis under varying network conditions (from 3G to 5G) and edge devices (HMD and traditional displays), and demonstrate better visual quality and temporal consistency than alternative solutions.

As virtual reality (VR) technology sees more use in various fields, there is a greater need to understand how to effectively design dynamic virtual environments. As of now, there is still uncertainty in how well users of a VR system are capable of tracking moving targets in a virtual space. In this work, we examined the influence of sensory modality and visual feedback on the accuracy of headgaze moving target tracking. To this end, a between subjects study was conducted wherein participants would receive targets that were visual, auditory, or audiovisual. Each participant performed two blocks of experimental trials, with a calibration block in between. Results indicate that audiovisual targets promoted greater improvement in tracking performance over single-modality targets, and that audio-only targets are more difficult to track than those of other modalities.

When we converse, we adapt our behaviors to our interlocutors. The adaptation can serve to indicate our engagement which can also elicit enhancement of the involvement of others. Virtual agents (or socially interactive virtual agents) that play the role of interaction partners can improve the human users' interaction experience by displaying continuous and adaptive behaviors in real time. Virtual agents have been used in multiple domains to improve user interaction and performance. The promising results of the endowment of adaptation to agents in increasing the agents' perception and user experience were shown in previous studies. In this paper, we develop an adaptive virtual agent that renders real-time adaptive behaviors based on the behaviors shown by its human interlocutor. The ASAP model rendering reciprocally adaptive agent behavior was employed to realize the system. The system consists of four main parts: perception of social signals, agent adaptive behavior generation, agent visualization (i.e. rendering of the agent's verbal and nonverbal behavior), and communication of signals. To showcase the usefulness of our adaptive agent, as a proof-of-concept we choose the e-health application of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT), which identifies and rectifies biased and irrational thoughts (or automatic thoughts). Through this study, we show the importance of giving the agent reciprocal adaptation capability notably in enhancing the user experience and the effectiveness of the CBT session. We validate the importance of endowing such adaptation capability by studying the difference between agents that are reciprocally adaptive, solely expressive (with mismatched behavior), and inexpressive (in a still posture) via questionnaires and measures related to the agent perception (naturalness, human-likeliness, synchrony, and engagement) for user experience and the CBT effectiveness (mood, anxiety, stress, and cognitive change). These results highlight the value of making virtual agents adapt in real time. This could lead to agents being capable of providing more personalized and interactive experiences for a wide range of applications. Also, we have collected a new human-agent interaction (HAI) database, HAI-CBT database, which is publicly available to the research community.

Understanding how people explore immersive virtual environments is crucial for many applications, such as designing virtual reality (VR) content, developing new compression algorithms, or learning computational models of saliency or visual attention. Whereas a body of recent work has focused on modeling saliency in desktop viewing conditions, VR is very different from these conditions in that viewing behavior is governed by stereoscopic vision and by the complex interaction of head orientation, gaze, and other kinematic constraints. To further our understanding of viewing behavior and saliency in VR, we capture and analyze gaze and head orientation data of 169 users exploring stereoscopic, static omni-directional panoramas, for a total of 1980 head and gaze trajectories for three different viewing conditions. We provide a thorough analysis of our data, which leads to several important insights, such as the existence of a particular fixation bias, which we then use to adapt existing saliency predictors to immersive VR conditions. In addition, we explore other applications of our data and analysis, including automatic alignment of VR video cuts, panorama thumbnails, panorama video synopsis, and saliency-based compression.

Based on the consideration of VR related concepts and technologies, this paper makes use of its multi perception, interaction and autonomy to bring students a immersive user experience in order to improve the cognitive teaching. Through the friendly software interface, the panoramic roaming of the yard, buildings and other equipment and facilities of the marshalling station as well as the display of the daily operation content are completed. Taking Fengxi marshalling station as an example, the operation process of the operation in the station is studied, and on this basis, the whole railway system is expanded. Let the students feel the railway scene better and more intuitively, while ensuring the safety, let the cognitive practice process really gain. The technical innovation of this paper includes: using 3ds Max to build the infrastructure model, and combining with the on-site investigation data as reference to render; using the leading-edge UE4 game engine to build the virtual scene, and realizing the background logic control, and completely reproducing the operation process of the railway marshalling station; and providing a targeted training and testing system for the study of railway knowledge.

This paper presents research and development of a dedicated system architecture, designed to enable its users to interact with each other as well as to access information on points of interest that exist in their immediate environment. This is accomplished through managing personal preferences and contextual information in a distributed manner and in real time. The advantage of this system is that it uses mobile devices, heterogeneous sensors and a selection of user interface paradigms to produce a sociotechnical framework to enhance the perception of the environment and promote intuitive interactions. Representation of the real-world objects, their spatial relations and other captured features are visualised on scalable interfaces, ranging from 2D to 3D models and from photorealism to stylised clues and symbols. The conceptual design and implementation of our location and orientation based algorithm for mobile augmented reality is presented in detail. The framework is fit for use in unknown environments and therefore suitable for ubiquitous operation. The presented prototype is multifaceted and capable of supporting peer-to-peer exchange of information in a pervasive fashion, usable in various contexts. The modalities of these interactions are explored and laid out particularly in the context of entertainment and urban navigation.

The integration of online platforms in (bio)chemical engineering education has increasingly become a matter of fact at all educational levels. Examples such as virtual laboratories in tertiary education have shown their benefits, such as the decreased cost and resources needed as well as providing a safer environment for practical experimentation. However, students or stakeholders are not usually involved in developing the virtual laboratory, even if, when given the opportunity, they can provide valuable feedback for improvement and acquire ownership over the platform. Hence, when proposing a novel educational process virtual laboratory that targets teaching bioprocess modeling to undergraduate students, the best approach is to involve the students in the development as its future users. To this end, in this work, four co-participatory design experiences are presented that show the journey from a paper prototype to an online educational virtual laboratory (). Qualitative and quantitative data have been collected in two different universities through surveys, semi-structured interviews, and informal conversations among the students and the developer. The students' perspectives were found to provide valuable feedback about the platform's content, usability, and functionality. For example, interest in adding bioprocess-related coding activities, or suggesting to change the platform name, were opinions collected and carefully considered. These suggestions can be easily integrated since the software is at the early stages of the virtual laboratory prototype. Although the usability and functionality features of the platform are under continuous advancement, this work's findings show that the students are interested in contributing to the virtual laboratory's development. Therefore, it opens the door to modifications and improvements, which are strongly based on the users'/students' perceptions and perspectives as the virtual laboratory's co-designers. Although the primary target of the BioVL prototype is to teach bioprocessing modelling, several advanced tools such as virtual and augmented reality (VR and AR) are being considered to be included at a future stage. Furthermore, the educational strategy proposed in this work can be replicated by those who want to develop other virtual laboratories.

Head Mounted Display (HMD) based Augmented Reality (AR) is being increasingly used in manufacturing and maintenance. However, limited research has been done to understand user interaction with AR interfaces, which may lead to poor usability, risk of occupational hazards, and low acceptance of AR systems. This paper uses a theoretically-driven approach to interaction design to investigate the impact of different AR modalities in terms of information mode (i.e. video vs. 3D animation) and interaction modality (i.e. hand-gesture vs. voice command) on user performance, workload, eye gaze behaviours, and usability during a maintenance assembly task. The results show that different information modes have distinct impacts compared to paper-based maintenance, in particular, 3D animation led to a 14% improvement over the video instructions in task completion time. Moreover, insights from eye gaze behaviours such as number of fixations and transition between Areas of Interest (AOIs) revealed the differences in attention switching and task comprehension difficulty with the choice of AR modalities. While, subjective user perceptions highlight some ergonomic issues such as misguidance and overreliance, which must be considered and addressed from the joint cognitive systems' (JCSs) perspective and in line with the predictions derived from the Multiple Resources Model.

Pseudo-haptic techniques are becoming increasingly popular in human-computer interaction. They replicate haptic sensations by leveraging primarily visual feedback rather than mechanical actuators. These techniques bridge the gap between the real and virtual worlds by exploring the brain's ability to integrate visual and haptic information. One of the many advantages of pseudo-haptic techniques is that they are cost-effective, portable, and flexible. They eliminate the need for direct attachment of haptic devices to the body, which can be heavy and large and require a lot of power and maintenance. Recent research has focused on applying these techniques to extended reality and mid-air interactions. To better understand the potential of pseudo-haptic techniques, the authors developed a novel taxonomy encompassing tactile feedback, kinesthetic feedback, and combined categories in multimodal approaches, ground not covered by previous surveys. This survey highlights multimodal strategies and potential avenues for future studies, particularly regarding integrating these techniques into extended reality and collaborative virtual environments.

The QWERTY keyboard on mobile devices usually requires users' full visual attention and both hands, which is not always possible. We propose a thumb-stroke-based keyboard, ThumbStroke, to support both sight-free and one-handed text entry. Text entry via ThumbStroke completely relies on the directions of thumb strokes at any place on the screen of a mobile device. It does not require physical press on any specific keys, thus eliminating the need for visual attention and reducing errors due to tiny key size, fat thumbs, limited thumb reachability, and visual occlusion. We empirically evaluated ThumbStroke through a 20-session longitudinal controlled lab experiment. ThumbStroke shows advantages in typing accuracy and user perceptions in comparison to the Escape and QWERTY keyboards and results in faster typing speed than QWERTY in sight-free and one-handed text entry. This study provides novel research contributions to mobile HCI, advancing the design of soft keyboards for one-handed interaction with mobile devices and mobile accessibility. Z8 0

As a central functional aspect, the design of library reading spaces should consider users' perceptual experiences to optimize their psychological responses. However, the current literature lacks a rational analysis and definitive guidelines regarding the interior height design of reading rooms. This study focuses on physiological data supplemented by subjective evaluations to explore potential correlations between library reading space height and user perceptions. Specifically, we employed Virtual Reality (VR) to create four experimental scenarios, investigating reading space heights within a laboratory setting while capturing corresponding electroencephalogram (EEG), galvanic skin response (GSR), and subjective assessment data. Correlation analysis of EEG signals and height variations across the four scenarios revealed that the exposure sequence influenced participants' physiological experiences, particularly in the frontal lobe. Fitting curves illustrated changes in alpha and beta H as heights varied, influenced by scene disparities. Correlational analysis between physiological and survey data established a connection between psychological perceptions and alpha waves. Findings indicate that height variations impact both physiological and psychological aspects. For a reading room space of 12.600 m x 22.500 m, maintaining psychological and physiological comfort requires a minimum height of 2.600 m. This research contributes a unique perspective by constructing a framework for investigating library reading spaces, offering novel insights for optimizing their design.

Purpose The study aims to introduce a cloud-based virtual reality (VR) approach and investigate its applicability and performance in aiding the remote design evaluation process by assessing the clients' convenience perception toward cloud-based VR-aided design evaluation (Cloud-based VR Approach) compared to 3D model-aided design evaluation (3D Model Approach) and rendering images-aided design evaluation (Image Approach). Design/methodology/approach A multicriteria comparative study was conducted with 26 university students using the "analytic hierarchy process" technique to compare the three approaches applied to home finishing material selection tasks based on the five "service convenience" dimensions, consisting of access convenience, decision convenience, transaction convenience, benefit convenience and post-benefit convenience. Findings The results indicated that the "Cloud-based VR Approach" was perceived to be more convenient than the "3D Model Approach" and the "Image Approach" based on the aspects of "decision convenience", "transaction convenience", "benefit convenience" and "post-benefit convenience". The only aspect that the Cloud-based VR Approach was comparatively less convenient than the 3D Model Approach and Image Approach for the user was "access convenience". Overall, the findings showed that the developed Cloud-based VR Approach had more potential than the conventional approaches in aiding the design evaluation process under ongoing social distancing measures requiring designers and clients to work remotely. Originality/value The disastrous impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on logistical systems have resulted in massive disruptions to the construction industry worldwide. Various construction activities have been halted and most meetings moved online. Design evaluation conducted between clients and designers is one of the important activities affected by such an impact. Thus, this study presents the Cloud-based VR Approach as an innovative means to maintain essential ongoing activities and meeting of the current design evaluation approach with respect to the social distancing measures. Z8 0

Displays supporting stereoscopic and head-coupled motion parallax can enhance human perception of containing 3D surfaces and 3D networks but less for so volumetric data. Volumetric data is characterized by a heavy presence of transparency, occlusion and highly ambiguous spatial structure. There are many different rendering and visualization algorithms and interactive techniques that enhance perception of volume data and these techniques. effectiveness have been evaluated. However, how VR display technologies affect perception of volume data is less well studied. Therefore, we conduct two formal experiments on how various display conditions affect a participant's depth perception accuracy of a volumetric dataset. Our results show effects of VR displays for human depth perception accuracy for volumetric data. We discuss the implications of these finding for designing volumetric data visualization tools that use VR displays. In addition, we compare our result to previous works on 3D networks and discuss possible reasons for and implications of the different results.

In this paper we introduce the tangiBook, a tangible display system that allows realistic simulation and direct interaction with virtual surfaces. The tangiBook is based on an off-the-shelf laptop computer that incorporates an accelerometer and a webcam as standard equipment. Custom software allows the orientation of the laptop screen and the position of the observer to be tracked in real-time. Using this information, realistic images of surfaces with complex textures and material properties, illuminated by environment-mapped lighting, are rendered to the screen at interactive rates. Tilting the laptop or moving in front of the screen produces realistic changes in surface lighting and material appearance. Thus the tangiBook allows virtual surfaces to be observed and manipulated as naturally as real ones, with the added benefit that the material properties of the surfaces can be changed in real-time. We demonstrate the potential utility of the tangiBook in three application areas: material perception research, computer-aided appearance design, and enhanced access to collections in digital libraries and museums. With its unique capabilities and commodity roots, the tangiBook can be broadly deployed and should be useful in a wide range of applications.

This study explores how participants in an immersive theatrical performance perceive their role in the virtual environment (VE) and the effects of this perception on how they experience the performance as a whole. Using a quasi-experimental 2 * 2 design, narrative and task-based search was manipulated to explore the effects on spatial presence, social presence, identification and enjoyment. Results show that the effect of spatial presence on enjoyment of the performance is entirely mediated by identification with the role of the self in the VE. This could have interesting consequences for the experience of more narrative VEs and suggests that the role of identification is something to explore further in future presence research.

Virtual Reality technology may provide new options for conducting perceptual-motor assessment within simulated 3D environments for persons with a wide range of disabilities. This paper outlines our work developing a series of game-like VR scenarios to assess and rehabilitate eye-hand coordination, range of motion and other relevant perceptual-motor activities. Our efforts have focused on building engaging game-based stereoscopic graphic scenarios that allow clients to participate in perceptual-motor rehabilitation by interacting with 3D stimuli within a full 360-Degree space using a head mounted display or by way of a "face-forward" format using 3D projection displays. Exploratory work using multiple video sensors to detect and track 3D body motion, identify body postures and quantify motor performance is also described.

Renderingaccurate multisensory feedback is critical to ensure natural user behavior in driving simulators. In this work, we present a virtual reality (VR)-based Vehicle-in-the-Loop (ViL) simulator that provides visual, vestibular, and haptic feedback to drivers in high speed driving conditions. Designing our simulator around a four-wheel steer-by-wire vehicle enables us to emulate the dynamics of a vehicle traveling significantly faster than the test vehicle and to transmit corresponding haptic steering feedback to the driver. By scaling the speed of the test vehicle through a combination of VR visuals, vehicle dynamics emulation, and steering wheel force feedback, we can safely and immersively run experiments up to highway speeds within a limited driving space. In double lane change and highway weaving experiments, our high speed emulation method tracks yaw motion within human perception limits and provides sensory feedback comparable to the same maneuvers driven manually.

The emerging haptic technology has introduced new media perceptions and also increased the immersive experiences of end-users. To date, novel haptic-audio-visual environments and their Quality of Experience (QoE) assessments are still challenging issues. In this work, we investigate the haptic-visual interaction QoE in virtual as well as real-world environments. First, we establish a haptic-visual interaction platform based on a balance ball Virtual Reality (VR) game scene and a haptic-visual interaction platform with data-glove-assisted remote control. Second, we conduct subjective tests to qualitatively and quantitatively analyze the impacts of system-related, user-related and task-related factors on QoE evaluation. Third, we propose learning-based QoE models to effectively evaluate the user-perceived QoE in haptic-visual interaction. In the future work, we aim to focus on the improvement of the two established platforms, with the addition of audio-related influencing factors and more haptic feedback, and optimizing the proposed QoE model for further improvement of haptic-audio-visual interaction applications.

This paper presents "Body Cosmos", an artwork that creates a symbiotic relationship between the human body and a simulated cosmic environment through volumetric rendering and particle system. Drawing from DICOM data to simulate the human body and nebulae, we create an interactive and dynamic virtual environment. The real-time bio-data of users, collected via heart rate sensors and EEG devices, is integrated into the visualization, fostering a personal engagement and unity within this 'cosmos.' Body Cosmos provokes curiosity and expands users' imagination, and deepens their understanding of life's macrocosm and microcosm. This exploratory project redefines traditional perceptions of the human body in relation to the universe, creating a unique lens to view selfhood, embodiment, and identity. As we look to the future, the system's evolution will include incorporation of more bio-data sensors, an investigation into its potential psychological and physiological benefits, and the development of social interactive features through multi-user capabilities.

Due to the global pandemic, heavily practical based teaching in veterinary education has been hugely impacted. Even before the crisis, an innovative way to provide an assessment that could simulate the examination of a cadaver has been a long-standing dream for veterinary schools and faculty. We designed and implemented a summative assessment system using touchless interaction head-mounted display (HMD) Virtual Reality (VR), and presented a user study that was an initial exploration of the proposed system designed to replace traditional spatial multiple choices questions (MCQs) for veterinary students. The performance relating to the score and time spent of 24 veterinary students was measured in online MCQ and VR MCQ. Questionnaires were sent out to gather demographic data and opinions. Manipulation time in the VR environment was tracked. The results showed that the time spent was significantly shorter using VR as an assessment tool compared to online MCQ. Participants revealed that the VR assessment outperformed the traditional method in terms of satisfaction, distinctiveness, concentration, and nervousness levels. However, they underperformed in the VR examination significantly. The summative assessment in VR has the potential to further support veterinary education, and the usage of HMDs and touchless interaction will boost the process. This evaluation illustrates the gap between students' perception of VR examination and their MCQ performance that will require future research to untangle if this technology is to be adopted in the anatomy classroom.

Eye gaze accuracy is one of the most commonly used parameter to evaluate the eye tracker performance. The current study applied stepwise multiple regression to predict the significant predictors for eye gaze accuracy (AC). 7 male and 3 female were recruited to perform multi-directional tapping task in the projection-based stereoscopic display under 3 different levels of parallax and 6 different levels of index of difficulty (ID). Tobii X2 eye tracker was used to measure the selected four eye movement parameters which consist number of fixation (NF), fixation duration (FD), time to first fixation (TFF), and eye movement time (EMT). The results indicated that NF was found to be the best predictor for AC followed by EMT and parallax. The R2 value of 0.247 indicating that the 24.7% of the variability of the data was explained by the model. Practitioner Summary: The result of multiple regression can be a valuable theoretical foundation for evaluating an eye tracker. The results could be very beneficial for human factors engineers and virtual reality developers especially for predicting eye gaze accuracy.

The weak association between flow experience and task performance (also known as weak flow-performance link) can reduce the positive effect of virtual reality (VR) applications. Distraction caused by incongruence between the primary task and interactive artifacts may be a direct factor leading to the weak link, but it has still not been tested. To empirically test this assumption and explore approaches to alleviate it, we developed the 'VR searching paradigm' and a prototype VR system, based on which three comparative experiments were conducted. Study 1 tested the effect of distraction and proved that high levels of distraction caused by incongruence can lead to the weak link (beta = 0.198, p = 0.391). Next, two common design guidelines were proposed to deal with distraction. Study 2 tested the effect of reducing conspicuous but task-irrelevant distractors (guideline 1) on flow-performance link. Study 3 tested the effect of providing visual cues (utilizing distractors to achieve task-oriented selective attention), which is guideline 2, on flow-performance link. The results of studies 2 and 3 revealed that both guidelines helped enhance the task performance without damaging flow experience, alleviating the weak link problem (beta = 0.351, p = 0.031; beta = 0.255, p = 0.041). Our results provide the first piece of evidence that directly proves the effect of distraction on weak flow-performance link, which helps improve the explanation of the mechanism. Moreover, this paper is the first that proves the effectiveness of two easy approaches to alleviating the weak link by way of guiding the user's task-relevant attention.

The article describes the development and ergonomic evaluation of an augmented reality (AR) welding helmet. The system provides an augmented user interface with supporting information relevant to the welding process. The experimental studies focused on hand-eye coordination of welders and nonwelders with two prototypes of the augmented reality welding helmet. The first prototype operated at 16 frames per second, whereas the second, improved version had 20 frames per second. In addition, the hand-eye coordination while wearing the welding helmet with video see-through head-mounted display was compared to a performance with natural vision, without any helmet. Experimental results showed significant influence of helmet and occupation on handeye coordination. Subjective assessment revealed better rating for stereo perception for the system with the higher frame rate, whereas no significant difference in performance was found between the two frame rates. (c) 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Z8 0

What are the technological bottlenecks in virtual assembly simulations with haptic feedback? To tackle this question, we present an evaluation study in which real feedback modalities are gradually replaced by synthetic ones. In particular, the effects of the following factors on the user performance and perception during virtual assemblies are analyzed: (i) a visual feedback system consisting of an nVisor head-mounted display, (ii) our haptic device HUG suited for unscaled upper-body movements, and (iii) our novel six-DoF constraint-based haptic rendering algorithm. Besides that, the influence of (iv) real collision sounds is also examined to a lesser extent. The experimental assembly scenario consisted of three variations of peg-in-hole tasks which were performed by a total of N = 24 participants in a within-design study. The mentioned three synthetic factors (i)-(iii) gradually replaced in five degrees or steps the real feedback sources, ending up in completely virtual assembly simulations. For each of the degrees, three objective variables (completion time, collision forces, and muscular effort) and five subjective ratings (related to the perception of realism and the workload) were recorded and statistically analyzed. In order to explain subjective perception also with objective measures, reaction times of a secondary audio task performed in parallel with the assembly exercises were recorded, too. While previous works have mainly focused on differences of completion time between real and virtual manipulations, our results show how all of the mentioned twelve performance and perception indicators are influenced by each of the four varied feedback factors, building a multi-modality relationship function that maps our or similar systems and expected user responses. In general, the haptic feedback modality turned out to have the largest impact on the dependent variables, particularly the HUG interface, whereas audio cues seemed to be less significant. We quantify these previous and further qualitative statements within the domain defined by the used systems. Moreover, the relationship of our insights with related other work is discussed, and their projections are outlined.

Applied Research Associates and BAE Systems are working together to develop a wearable augmented reality system under the DARPA ULTRA-Vis program dagger. Our approach to achieve the objectives of ULTRAVis, called iLeader, incorporates a full color 40 degrees field of view (FOV) see-thru holographic waveguide integrated with sensors for full position and head tracking to provide an unobtrusive information system for operational maneuvers. iLeader will enable warfighters to mark-up the 3D battle-space with symbologic identification of graphical control measures, friendly force positions and enemy/target locations. Our augmented reality display provides dynamic real-time painting of symbols on real objects, a pose-sensitive 360 degrees representation of relevant object positions, and visual feedback for a variety of system activities. The iLeader user interface and situational awareness graphical representations are highly intuitive, non-disruptive, and always tactically relevant. We used best human-factors practices, system engineering expertise, and cognitive task analysis to design effective strategies for presenting real-time situational awareness to the military user without distorting their natural senses and perception. We present requirements identified for presenting information within a see-through display in combat environments, challenges in designing suitable visualization capabilities, and solutions that enable us to bring real-time iconic command and control to the tactical user community.

Guided by the Stimulus-Organism-Response (S-O-R) and aesthetics frameworks, this research investigated the impacts of non-immersive virtual reality (VR) aesthetics on visitors' perceived utilitarian and hedonic values, attitudes toward VR, and visit intention. Three hundred and thirty-five respondents who had completed a virtual guided tour provided by the Hong Kong Railway Museum by using personal devices such as computers and smartphones without having the aid of more advanced technologies were surveyed. The results revealed that design aesthetics, interactivity aesthetics, and presence aesthetics of VR could strongly predict users' cognitive and emotional reactions regarding their perceptions of utilitarian and hedonistic values, their attitude toward using VR, and their intention to visit the museums, with the exception that interactivity aesthetics was found to have no effects on the perceived utilitarian values. This study contributed by providing a newly formulated and tested theoretical framework that aids understanding of the role of aesthetics in VR technology in the specific context of museums. It also sheds light for museum operators on how VR innovation can evoke positive responses and attract more visitors.

Purpose - Gaming and interactive virtual simulation environments support a learner-centered educational model allowing learners to work through problems acquiring knowledge through an active, experiential learning approach. To develop effective virtual simulations and serious games, the views and perceptions of learners and educators must be assessed and taken into account, regarding their use in the classroom. This paper aims to present the results of two surveys conducted to assess faculty and student perceptions. Design/methodology/approach - Both surveys were conducted at University of Ontario Institute of Technology. The surveys were made available to students and faculty members via a link on an institute-wide internal course management system. Findings - Results indicate that students and educators appreciate the use of virtual simulations and serious games, but care must be taken to ensure that they are relevant to the course material and that educators are familiar with their use to assist students, should problems arise. Originality/value - This is the first study of its kind conducted at a laptop-based university and the results are important when considering the development of virtual simulations and serious games for teaching and learning.

BACKGROUND: Comfort is an important factor in the acceptance of transport systems. In 2010 and 2011, the European Commission (EC) put forward its vision for air travel in the year 2050 which envisaged the use of in-flight virtual reality. This paper addressed the EC vision by investigating the effect of virtual environments on comfort. Research has shown that virtual environments can provide entertaining experiences and can be effective distracters from painful experiences. OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent to which a virtual environment could distract people from sources of discomfort. METHODS: Experiments which involved inducing discomfort commonly experienced in-flight (e.g. limited space, noise) in order to determine the extent to which viewing a virtual environment could distract people from discomfort. RESULTS: Virtual environments can fully or partially distract people from sources of discomfort, becoming more effective when they are interesting. They are also more effective at distracting people from discomfort caused by restricted space than noise disturbances. CONCLUSIONS: Virtual environments have the potential to enhance passenger comfort by providing positive distractions from sources of discomfort. Further research is required to understand more fully the reasons why the effect was stronger for one source of discomfort than the other.

As the virtual reality (VR) market is growing at a fast pace, numerous users and producers are emerging with the hope to navigate VR towards mainstream adoption. Although most solutions focus on providing high resolution and high-quality videos, the acoustics in VR is as important as visual cues for maintaining consistency with the natural world. We therefore investigate one of the most important audio solutions for VR applications: ambisonics. Several VR producers such as Google, HTC, and Facebook support the ambisonic audio format. Binaural ambisonics builds a virtual loudspeaker array over a VR headset, providing immersive sound. The configuration of the virtual loudspeaker influences the listening perception, as has been widely discussed in the literature. However, few studies have investigated the influence of the orientation of the virtual loudspeaker array. That is, the same loudspeaker arrays with different orientations can produce different spatial effects. This paper introduces a VR audio technique with optimal design and proposes a dual-mode audio solution. Both an objective measurement and a subjective listening test show that the proposed solution effectively enhances spatial audio quality.

We present the design, implementation, and evaluation of X-AR, an augmented reality (AR) system with non-line-of-sight perception. X-AR augments AR headsets with RF sensing to enable users to see things that are otherwise invisible to the human eye or to state-of-the-art AR systems. Our design introduces three main innovations: the first is an AR-conformal antenna that tightly matches the shape of the AR headset visor while providing excellent radiation and bandwidth capabilities for RF sensing. The second is an RF-visual synthetic aperture localization algorithm that leverages natural human mobility to localize RF-tagged objects in line-of-sight and non-line-of-sight settings. Finally, the third is an RF-visual verification primitive that fuses RF and vision to deliver actionable tasks to end users such as picking verification. We built an end-to-end prototype of our design by integrating it into a Microsoft Hololens 2 AR headset and evaluated it in line-of-sight and non-line-of-sight environments. Our results demonstrate that X-AR achieves decimeter-level RF localization (median of 9.8 cm) of fully-occluded items and can perform RF-visual picking verification with over 95% accuracy (F-Score) when extracting RFID-tagged items. These results show that X-AR is successful in extending AR systems to non-line-of-sight perception, with important implications to manufacturing, warehousing, and smart home applications. Demo video: y2u.be/bdUN21ft7G0

This early-stage study explores Gen Z's travel intentions and virtual museum visits in the metaverse by experiencing Egypt, Scotland, and Turkey. The subjective perception and judgment of Gen Z users are investigated in the immersive environment. Semi-structured interviews and laboratory sessions took place with 20 volunteers in three studies. Study 1 and Study 2 reveal different views of Gen Z concerning their travel intentions as two open-air experiences in the metaverse. Study 3 shows Gen Z perspectives of a virtual museum visit as an indoor experience. Through this study, we could form a link between the metaverse and Gen Z travel intentions using two travel applications for Egypt and Scotland, and a museum application for Turkey, which has rarely been discussed before. The study also guides an experience, interaction, interface design for VR 360 video and future-related tourism products and services for Gen Z users. The study illuminates the travel and metaverse relationship for future studies for practitioners and researchers. Z8 0

This paper presents an immersive multimodal Gumdo simulation game that allows a user to experience the whole body interaction with an intelligent cyber fencer. The proposed system consists of three modules: (i) a nondistracting multimodal interface with 3D vision and speech (ii) an intelligent cyber fencer and (iii) an immersive feedback by a big screen and sound. Firstly, the multimodal interface allows a user to move around and to shout without distracting the user. Secondly, an intelligent cyber fencer provides the user with intelligent interactions by perception and reaction modules that are created by the analysis of real Gumdo game. Finally, an immersive audio-visual feedback helps a user experience an immersive interaction. The proposed interactive system with an intelligent fencer is designed to satisfy comfortable interface, perceptual intelligence, and natural interaction (I-cubed) and enhance the life-like impression of fighting actions. The suggested system can be applied to various applications such as education, art, and exercise.

In a previous work, we confirmed the existing effects of "Out of the Body" tactile illusion for virtual and augmented objects through funneling and saltation. However, it required a virtual imagery to be attached to the user for directly extending one's body. This paper aims at investigating similar phantom tactile sensations exist when the virtual object is visually detached from the user's body. Two usability experiments were conducted to verify the hypothesized phantom tactile effects: one for funneling and the other, saltation. Our results have shown that in addition to the perception of the phantom sensations with the "detached" visual feedback, the interaction experience was significantly enriched (vs. when without explicit visual feedback). We also discovered for the first time that for funneling, phantom sensations can be elicited without any visual feedback at all. The findings can be applied to the tactile interaction design using minimal number of actuators on a variety of media platforms including the mobile, holography and augmented reality.

Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a pervasive disorder that can cause sensory-perceptual anomalies, such as a hypersensitivity to contact with other people. We have designed and developed a tactile sleeve to help ASD patients potentially learn how to manage hypersensitivities to human contact through virtual experiences of being touched. Our tactile sleeve simulates both simple and dynamic social touches on the upper arm of the user. These touch gestures are perceived from phantom tactile sensations and apparent tactile motions that are generated by a rectangular grid of vibrotactile actuators. Our design requirements for the sleeve included being inexpensive to produce and integrable with prior ASD intervention software. We describe our formative process for developing the sleeve and conclude with details of our final prototype.

There has been an increased interest in Virtual Reality (VR) as a medium of distraction for paediatric cancer patients. Paediatric cancer patients that undergo chemotherapy treatments often face episodes of anxiety, depression and isolation due to the lengthy procedure. The use of video games as a medium of distraction has shown positive results as a tool to provide emotional support for paediatric cancer patients during chemotherapy. However, few studies have qualitatively explored the experience of healthcare professionals on VR usability before testing with real patients. This paper reports an experimental evaluation of healthcare professionals' perspective on the use of VR technology for paediatric cancer patients among healthcare professionals. The objectives are to explore the potential impact of VR as a distraction in paediatric cancer treatment procedure and to identify user requirements for VR technology in the related hospital setting. This paper presents the results of focus-group interviews on this topic with healthcare professionals working in paediatric oncology unit. Interview data was analysed using thematic analysis and a heuristic evaluation technique to identify relevant usability design considerations.

This article presents a novel design of a Virtual Assistant as part of a human-machine interaction system to improve communication between the presenter and the audience that can be used in education or general presentations for improving interaction during the presentations (e.g., auditoriums with 200 people). The main goal of the proposed model is the design of a framework of interaction to increase the level of attention of the public in key aspects of the presentation. In this manner, the collaboration between the presenter and Virtual Assistant could improve the level of learning among the public. The design of the Virtual Assistant relies on non-anthropomorphic forms with 'live' characteristics generating an intuitive and self-explainable interface. A set of intuitive and useful virtual interactions to support the presenter was designed. This design was validated from various types of the public with a psychological study based on a discrete emotions' questionnaire confirming the adequacy of the proposed solution. The human-machine interaction system supporting the Virtual Assistant should automatically recognize the attention level of the audience from audiovisual resources and synchronize the Virtual Assistant with the presentation. The system involves a complex artificial intelligence architecture embracing perception of high-level features from audio and video, knowledge representation, and reasoning for pervasive and affective computing and reinforcement learning to teach the intelligent agent to decide on the best strategy to increase the level of attention of the audience.

Objective: This study examined the concept of dynamic viewpoint tethering for enhancing performance in 3-D avatar control tasks. Background: Dynamic viewpoint tethering refers to a viewpoint animation technique that couples a display viewpoint to a controlled avatar through a virtual tether. A dynamic tether, modeled as a mass spring damper system, can potentially generate desirable viewpoint behavior because of its ability to produce frequency-separated viewpoint responses. This study investigated the impact of a tether's rigidity and damping properties on users' navigational performance. Methods: Twelve participants took part in a simulated 3-D aerial navigational task. Performance was evaluated with respect to local guidance and global awareness. Results: Root mean square error scores revealed a decrease in local guidance performance when (a) the tether was either severely underdamped or overdamped and (b) the tether's rigidity approached either zero or infinity. In addition, (c) global performance was better for higher-frequency forcing functions. Conclusion: Critical damping and medium rigidity can be optimized during design for enhancing users' navigational efficiency. Application: Guidelines generated from this study support future viewpoint design in interactive virtual reality applications. Z8 0

To be immersed in a virtual environment, the user must be presented with plausible sensory input including auditory cues. A virtual (three-dimensional) audio display aims to allow the user to perceive the position of a sound source at an arbitrary position in three-dimensional space despite the fact that the generated sound may be emanating from a fixed number of loudspeakers at fixed positions in space or a pair of headphones. The foundation of virtual audio rests on the development of technology to present auditory signals to the listener's ears so that these signals are perceptually equivalent to those the listener would receive in the environment being simulated. This paper reviews the human perceptual and technical literature relevant to the modeling and generation of accurate audio displays for virtual environments. Approaches to acoustical environment simulation are summarized and the advantages and disadvantages of the various approaches are presented.

Previous work suggests that the mere visual perception of disease cues displayed in 2D videos or photos can proactively enhance mucosal immune responses even without actual pathogen exposure. In this paper, we present the first immersive immunological experiment, which investigates if social interactions with virtual agents in virtual reality (VR) can lead to a mucosal immune response, in particular, a proactive release of secretory immunoglobin A (sIgA) in saliva. Therefore, we simulated a virtual bus stop scenario of enhanced airborne contagion risk in which participants were required to closely approach and establish eye contact with ten agents in two conditions. In the first (i.e., contagion) condition, seven of the ten agents sneezed directly before smiling or at predefined intervals. The second (i.e., control) condition used the same agents but without sneezes. We tested 70 healthy participants in a between-subjects design, measured changes in salivary sIgA, as well as subjectively perceived disgust and contagion risk, and assessed their sense of presence and cybersickness in the VE. We found that sIgA secretion increased in both scenarios, while in the control scenario, this increase also correlated with the perceived involvement and sense of presence in the VE. This suggests that the intimate social interactions with virtual agents were sufficient to trigger increased sIgA secretion regardless of sneezing. Hence, VR can be used to provoke proactive immune responses in laboratory experiments.

The integration of virtual agents in real-time interactive virtual applications raises several challenges. The rendering of the movements of the virtual character in the virtual scene (locomotion of the character or rotation of its head) and the binaural rendering in 3D of the synthetic speech during these movements need to be spatially coordinated. Furthermore, the system must enable real-time adaptation of the agent's expressive audiovisual signals to user's on-going actions. In this paper, we describe a platform that we have designed to address these challenges as follows: (1) the modules enabling real time synthesis and spatial rendering of the synthetic speech, (2) the modules enabling 3D real time rendering of facial expressions using a GPU-based 3D graphic engine, and (3) the integration of these modules within an experimental platform using gesture as an input modality. A new model of phoneme-dependent human speech directivity patterns is included in the speech synthesis system, so that the agent can move in the virtual scene with realistic 3D visual and audio rendering. Future applications of this platform include perceptual studies about multimodal perception and interaction, expressive real time question and answer system and interactive arts.

Three-dimensional (3D) audio reproduction techniques reproduce realistic sound sources and spatial perception for listeners. However, it is a rather difficult work to configure all the parameters in the previous 3D reproduction systems since ordinary users hardly possess professional acoustic knowledge. In this article, we developed a sound source distance reproduction model and design an online parameter computing framework for users to generate reproduction parameters based on a cloud computing platform. The proposed model reproduces sound direction and distance cues under specific conditions. Subjective experiments are executed to assess the spatial reproduction performance in a real environment and objective experiments are performed in simulated scenarios. Both the subjective and objective experiments show that the proposed method improves the spatial perception of sound events. Since the reproduction model depends on environment and loudspeaker array configuration, a cloud parameter generation framework is developed for users to generate acoustic parameters for the reproduction system.

Sketching is a common way to depict design ideas freely. Augmented reality technology extends the human-computer interaction space from the screen to the real world, providing a new application space for 3D sketching. However, due to the difficulty of depth perception, it is difficult for sketching strokes to maintain good planar and spatial consistency, making drawing 3D sketches in AR challenging. In this article, we propose FMASketch-a method of drawing mid-air sketches similar to building blocks. The auxiliary surfaces can ensure that the strokes drawn by users can always stay on the same plane as drawing in 2D space. Gestures are used to stitch together multiple drawing planes, and the strokes on the planes form a 3D sketch, which is very similar to how 3D modeling is done on the desktop by drawing different views and assembling them. Experiments have verified the effectiveness of the auxiliary surface generation method and gesture operations in this article. The mid-air sketching method is easy to learn and provides a new idea for rapid modeling in AR scenarios.

Understanding the determinants of cycling and thus creating optimal cycling conditions is still a challenge. The current study addresses this challenge by providing in-depth exploration of attributes of bicycle infrastructure, traffic volume, gradients, urbanisation degrees in stimulating cycling for various population categories. Participants had to cycle in a simulated VR environment mirroring the streetscape of a real Dutch city. The cognitive (e.g., safety perception) and affective (e.g., enjoyment, attractiveness) response was measured, real time.The results suggest that various attributes impact the cognitive and affective components to different extents. In particular, bicycle path presence and intersection absence had a positive impact on safety perception. Greenness of the environment contributed for lifting the attractiveness of the cycling experience. Hight car traffic had a negative impact on the way safety, enjoyment and attractiveness of cycling was perceived. Current outcomes should be implemented in creating bicycle infrastructure that appropriately meets the demand for attractive cycling experience that is safe and enjoyable for all. Z8 0

This research addresses the issue of the memory-experience gap, the disconnect between momentary perceptions and post experience reporting as relates to HCI research methodologies and the study of immersive technologymediated experiences in particular. The paper presents an overview of contemporary understanding of immersion and examines HCI methods that investigate participant experiences. We introduce Experience Probes, an integrated design and evaluation methodology that affords momentary reporting by blending states of reflection and immersion in a structured activity situated within the immersive experience. A pilot study is presented that examines an immersive soundscape installation and an Experience Probe enacted through participant-authored sound maps. The maps provide data for thematic analysis, and are coded for signs of self-perception and a sense of place to evaluate participants' sensations of presence and immersion. Preliminary results are discussed in relation to the reality-virtuality continuum and suggest that the reflective act of reporting, and the experience of immersion within the soundscape installation are not mutually exclusive. This research seeks to extend HCI methods by overcoming the memory-experience gap in the evaluation of technology-mediated experiences.

We present a new mobile Augmented Reality device that combines mobile robotics, human-robots interactions, and 3D modeling to augment users' perception of their environment. The developed device, the MobilAR, provides minimally intrusive AR, where users do not need to wear any apparatus and no markers are used to align real and virtual entities. The mobilAR design is as follow : a projector is mounted on the end-effector of a robotic arm, itself mounted on a wheeled platform. The robotic arm allows to project undistorted content on any part of the environment such as walls, floor, ceiling and objects by using the right image transformation. The mobile base makes it possible to have the projector anywhere inside a building. The device uses self-localization and computer vision techniques to model the physical world and augment it. The mobilAR platform also encompasses a gesture recognition module for user interaction. As a proof-of-concept, we implemented a simple guided tour scenario of our laboratory where the MobilAR follows a user and projects contents on any surface. Results and extensions of this work are also discussed.

Lightweight, head-up displays integrated in industrial helmets allow to provide contextual information for industrial scenarios such as in maintenance. Moving from single display and single camera solutions to stereo perception and display opens new interaction possibilities. In particular this paper addresses the case of information sharing by a Baxter robot displayed to the user overlooking at the real scene. System design and interaction ideas are being presented.

The Metaverse technology (MVTECH) is an immersive virtual sphere where people interact with each other via avatars. The MVTECH promised to provide a number of potentials for various sectors including higher education. Despite the fact that MVTECH promotes virtual social interaction between people (e.g., university students), there is a lack of knowledge on what affects users' perceptions regarding its social sustainability in HEIs, specifically in developing nations. Therefore, this research paper aims to determine the variables that affect the learners' perceptions toward social sustainability (SS) of MVTECH in higher educational institutions (HEIs) in Jordan. A study model was formulated by integrating the core factors of the "unified theory of acceptance and use of technology" (UTAUT) ("performance expectancy, PE; effort expectancy, EE; social influence, SI; and facilitating conditions, FC") with "perceived curiosity" (PC) and "extraversion" (EXT) factors. Both PC and EXT were included as context-related variables that may possibly contribute to enhancing the applicability of UTAUT to a wide range of information technologies and settings. Data were collected from 422 students enrolled in Jordanian universities based on an online survey. The analysis of the "structural equation modeling" (SEM) found that students' perceptions toward Metaverse were significantly influenced by PE, FC, and EXT. Furthermore, the PC construct significantly affected the EE construct. However, EE and SI were revealed to have no significant impact on SS. Drawing from these results, the study makes a number of theoretical advances and clarifies a number of practical implications for those involved in the development, design, and decision-making processes that support the use of the Metaverse in HEIs. Z8 0

Purpose - The aim of this research project is to uncover if place-based learning can increase learner engagement and understanding of historical topics. Design/methodology/approach - To study this, learners will use GeoStoryteller to learn about a historical topic on the places where significant events occurred, and then be interviewed by the researchers. GeoStoryteller is a tool developed by the researchers that runs on smartphones, such as an iPhone or Android. It provides the user multimedia stories about the historical sites, delivered via the mobile web or through Layar, an augmented reality web browser. The initial application of this technology focuses on German immigration to New York City between 1840 and 1945 through a partnership with the Goethe-Institut, the Federal Republic of Germany's cultural institution. After using GeoStoryteller to learn about this content, n = 31 participants were interviewed by the researchers, and transcripts were subjected to a quantitative content analysis. Findings - Results indicate that the use of place increases learner perceptions of their engagement and understanding of historical topics; however, novel user interfaces like augmented reality impose significant usability issues, and more standard interfaces are preferred by users. Originality/value - The use of place in mobile learning environments provides a meaningful entry point into historical content. Teachers of history and social studies, as well as those working in memory institutions (museum, libraries, and archives), should be encouraged in using place in their teaching and mobile education initiatives.

Immersive environments have been successfully applied to a broad range of safety training in high-risk domains. However, very little research has used these systems to evaluate the risk-taking behavior of construction workers. In this study, we investigated the feasibility and usefulness of providing passive haptics in a mixed-reality environment to capture the risk-taking behavior of workers, identify at-risk workers, and propose injury-prevention interventions to counteract excessive risk-taking and risk-compensatory behavior. Within a mixed-reality environment in a CAVE-like display system, our subjects installed shingles on a (physical) sloped roof of a (virtual) two-story residential building on a morning in a suburban area. Through this controlled, within-subject experimental design, we exposed each subject to three experimental conditions by manipulating the level of safety intervention. Workers' subjective reports, physiological signals, psychophysical responses, and reactionary behaviors were then considered as promising measures of Presence. The results showed that our mixed-reality environment was a suitable platform for triggering behavioral changes under different experimental conditions and for evaluating the risk perception and risk-taking behavior of workers in a risk-free setting. These results demonstrated the value of immersive technology to investigate natural human factors.

Virtual worlds have the potential to offer nursing students social networking and, learning, opportunities through the use of collaborative and immersive learning. If nursing educators, are to stay, abreast of contemporary learning opportunities an exploration of the potential benefits of, virtual, worlds and their possibilities is needed. Literature was sourced that explored virtual worlds, and their, use in education, but nursing education specifically. It is clear that immersive learning has, positive, benefits for nursing, however the best way to approach virtual reality in nursing education, has yet to, be ascertained. (C) 2013 Australian College of Nursing Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. Z8 1

This paper presents the Pinch Sensor, an elastic input device to sense the fine motion and pinch force of the index finger and thumb - the two most used digits of human hands for in-hand object manipulation skills. In addition to open and close, the device would allow a user to control a robotic or simulated two-finger hand to reorient an object in three different ways and their combinations. A unique design of elastic sensing provides the users a high degree of perception resolution, as well as the sensation of holding an object with a certain level of stiffness between the index finger and thumb. These characteristics help the users to fine control the pinch force while carrying out manipulation skills. The design features a small size that allows it to be integrated to a handheld controller. Commonly available off-the-shelf components for consumer electronics are used to achieve affordability and reliability.

In the rapidly evolving field of virtual reality (VR), user experience issues in VR home interfaces are increasingly prominent as the user base expands. This study focuses on the VR home interface's tab menu, the initial point of user interaction with the VR system, pivotal in shaping first impressions and user motivation. The prevalent design approach extends traditional 2D interface methodologies, notably in menu card feedback representations, crucial for user navigation and understanding of VR environments. However, replicating 2D designs in VR often falls short of user expectations and the unique spatial nature of VR interfaces, highlighting the need for optimized design methods tailored to VR's interaction characteristics. This paper investigates user perceptions of different feedback representations in VR home interface menu cards. In a between-subjects experiment (N = 30), participants engaged with various feedback combinations in VR home interface menu cards and evaluated their experiences. Results indicate that while visual, auditory, and haptic feedback combination offers the highest immersion, the visual and auditory feedback mix scores best in user experience and usability, providing a balanced immersive experience. These findings suggest the visual-auditory combination as the optimal feedback representation for VR home interface menu selections, offering insights for future VR interface design.

With the development and promotion of driverless technology, researchers are focusing on designing varied types of external interfaces to induce trust in road users towards this new technology. In this paper, we investigated the effectiveness of a multimodal external human-machine interface (eHMI) for driverless vehicles in virtual environment, focusing on a two-way road scenario. Three phases of identifying, decelerating, and parking were taken into account in the driverless vehicles to pedestrian interaction process. Twelve eHMIs are proposed, which consist of three visual features (smile, arrow and none), three audible features (human voice, warning sound and none) and two physical features (yielding and not yielding). We conducted a study to gain a more efficient and safer eHMI for driverless vehicles when they interact with pedestrians. Based on study outcomes, in the case of yielding, the interaction efficiency and pedestrian safety in multimodal eHMI design was satisfactory compared to the single-modal system. The visual modality in the eHMI of driverless vehicles has the greatest impact on pedestrian safety. In addition, the "arrow" was more intuitive to identify than the "smile" in terms of visual modality.

When evaluating the surface appearance of real objects, observers engage in complex behaviors involving active manipulation and dynamic viewpoint changes that allow them to observe the changing patterns of surface reflections. We are developing a class of tangible display systems to provide these natural modes of interaction in computer-based studies of material perception. A first-generation tangible display was created from an off-the-shelf laptop computer containing an accelerometer and webcam as standard components. Using these devices, custom software estimated the orientation of the display and the user's viewing position. This information was integrated with a 3D rendering module so that rotating the display or moving in front of the screen would produce realistic changes in the appearance of virtual objects. In this paper, we consider the design of a second-generation system to improve the fidelity of the virtual surfaces rendered to the screen. With a high-quality display screen and enhanced tracking and rendering capabilities, a second-generation system will be better able to support a range of appearance perception applications.

Augmented reality (AR) glasses are likely to become omnipresent, providing a continuous and ubiquitous experience of computer-mediated reality. This new Pervasive AR will lead to perceptual, acceptance, and ethical issues which are increasingly discussed in the literature. However, given such Pervasive AR prototypes are currently not commercially available, little is known about potential end-users' input into this discussion. To address this, we developed a Pervasive AR (PAR) prototype serving as a technology probe and conducted an empirical study in a semi-public space involving 54 participants. We collected data from focus groups, questionnaires, and observations of users and bystanders. Extending concerns with existing technology, like smartphones and augmented reality, PAR exposes privacy and security breaches with its unprompted, all-seeing capability, has a higher potential to cause societal fractures and divisions, and raises new questions on information transparency and trust with significant implications for the design of future PAR systems.

Visual impairment represents a critical challenge for our society with 285 million affect worldwide; alarmingly, the prevalence is expected to triple by 2050. Supporting mobility is a chief priority for assistive technologies. In recent years, the integration of computer vision and haptic technologies has led to a number of wearable electronic travel aids (ETAs). Previously, we have proposed an ETA comprised of a computer vision system and a wearable haptic device in the form of a belt. The belt encompasses a two-by-five array of piezoelectric-based macrofiber composite (MFC) actuators, which can generate vibrations on the abdomen when an oscillating voltage is applied across their electrodes. The computer vision system identifies position and distance of surrounding obstacles egocentrically and drives the actuators relative to the salience of the potential hazard(s). Despite promising pilots, the design, control, and optimization of the ETA requires substantial, potentially high-risk, and tedious training and testing to accommodate patient-specific behavioral idiosyncrasies and a variety of visual impairments. To address these issues, we employ a virtual reality (VR) platform that offers simulations of visual impairment by disease type and severity with front-end control. We review our early work on the first three visual impairments piloted in the platform, each with three levels of severity: mild, moderate and severe. The VR environment is interfaced with the ETA, which provides feedback to the user based on the position of virtual obstacles. These simulations allow safe, controlled, repeatable experiments with ETAs that can be performed with varying degrees of visual perception. Our framework can become a paradigm for the development and testing of ETAs, with other potential applications in disability awareness, education, and training.

In social Virtual Reality (VR), users are embodied in avatars and interact with other users in a face-to-face manner using avatars as the medium. With the advent of social VR, people with disabilities (PWD) have shown an increasing presence on this new social media. With their unique disability identity, it is not clear how PWD perceive their avatars and whether and how they prefer to disclose their disability when presenting themselves in social VR. We fll this gap by exploring PWD's avatar perception and disability disclosure preferences in social VR. Our study involved two steps. We frst conducted a systematic review of ffteen popular social VR applications to evaluate their avatar diversity and accessibility support. We then conducted an in-depth interview study with 19 participants who had diferent disabilities to understand their avatar experiences. Our research revealed a number of disability disclosure preferences and strategies adopted by PWD (e.g., refect selective disabilities, present a capable self). We also identifed several challenges faced by PWD during their avatar customization process. We discuss the design implications to promote avatar accessibility and diversity for future social VR platforms.

In this paper, we propose ShadowClones, an interface that supports interactions in which a single user can interact with multiple bodies in multiple spaces. Recent teleoperation technologies have allowed a user controlling multiple objects simultaneously, but at the same time, it also exhibited a significant challenge, which can be attributed to the high cognitive load caused by switching and recogning various spaces/perspectives repeatedly and instantly. To tackle this challenge, by taking advantage of pre-attentive visual cues for users' simultaneous information processing, we designed and evaluated a new user interface, called Shadow Clones, that projects self-body information in unattended areas for increasing the awareness of body-space relationships and allowing users to seamlessly switch across different visual perspectives from avatars or remote robots. We then explored the proposed approach through a simple visual reaching task with a performance evaluation in terms of task completion time and success rate. The results showed superior performance when compared with a condition that presents no projections of users' body movements in unattended areas. We conclude by discussing possible mechanisms of this enhancement as well as two potential scenarios using the shadow clones approach, including new entertainment content for virtual reality e-sports and multiple robot teleoperation such as in a construction site or a disaster site, without compromising operational performance.

This study provides a systematic review of the recent advances in designing the intelligent tutoring robot (ITR) and summarizes the status quo of applying artificial intelligence (AI) techniques. We first analyze the environment of the ITR and propose a relationship model for describing interactions of ITR with the students, the social milieu, and the curriculum. Then, we transform the relationship model into the perception-planning-action model to explore what AI techniques are suitable to be applied in the ITR. This article provides insights on promoting a human-robot teaching-learning process and AI-assisted educational techniques, which illustrates the design guidelines and future research perspectives in intelligent tutoring robots.

There is a growing trend of entertainment applications where players wear non-see-through HMD devices (i.e. they see only virtual contents) and move freely in a physical environment, being able to touch physical objects and walls, feel hot air stream on their faces, and interact with other real people, while fully immersed in the simulation. Current definitions of mixed reality situations cannot cope adequately with this new class of experience. In this paper we name this new situation as "pervasive virtuality", which we define as being a virtual environment that is extended by incorporating physical elements as proxy objects, integrating contextual information, and resolving conflicts with the dominance of a particular sense (usually vision). This new mixed reality paradigm is not well understood by both industry and academia. Therefore, we propose an extension to the well-known Milgram and Colquhoun's taxonomy to cope with this new mixed reality situation. Furthermore, we propose Pervasive Virtuality characteristics that represent quality requirements, which help us to understand and design this new type of virtual environment. This paper also presents a brief case study using these characteristics.

Virtual Geographic Environment (VGE), or Geographic Virtual Environment (GeoVE) is considered to have the potential to extend the power of geographic information visualization methods. As the increasing development of computer network and Internet technologies, Distributed VGE (DVGE) has been developed to support rnulti-users to participate and share the same virtual geographic workspace. Nowadays more and more tasks require group work, and many of them are spatial related, although DVGE extends the scope for participants to handle geographic problems, it still lacks efficient mechanism to make people's collaborative work more efficiently. In this regard, we integrate CSCW and AI with CVGE and bring forward Collaborative VGE (CVGE) to support collaborative work in VGE. This paper illustrates the seven distinguished Features of CVGE as a criterion for CVGE system design and assess; then analyses the construction of CVGE on the aspects of Individual, System and Society; the construction graphic shows that perception model, behavior model and collaboration model is the key ingredients of a CVGE system. As an application of CVGE, it collaborative Virtual Forest Environment (VFE) is introduced in which VRML, Agent, Electronic Whiteboard and other technologies are applied.

This paper introduces the technical foundations of a system designed to embed a lightweight, faithful and spatially manipulable representation of the user's hand into an otherwise virtual world - Augmented Virtuality (AV). A highly intuitive control during pointing-like near space interaction can be provided to the user, as well as a very flexible means to experimenters, in a variety of non-medical and medical contexts. Our approach essentially relies on stereoscopic video see-through Augmented Reality (AR) technology and a generic, extendible framework for managing 3-D visual hand displacements. Research from human-computer interaction, perception and motor control has contributed to the elaboration of our proposal which combines a) acting in co-location, b) avoiding occlusion violations by assuring a correct scene depth ordering and c) providing a convincing visual feedback of the user's hand. We further present two cases in which this system has already successfully been used and then outline some other applications that we think are promising, for instance, in the fields of neuromotor rehabilitation and experimental neuroscience.

Virtual Reality (VR) is a technology that has been used to provide the Mirror Visual Feedback (MVF) illusion to patients with promising results. In the present work, the goal is to design, develop and test a portable VR-based MVF system that monitors behavioral information about the performance of a simple motor task. The developed application runs in a stand-alone VR system and allows the researcher to select the real and virtual hands used to perform the motor task. The system was evaluated with a group of twenty healthy volunteers (12 men and 8 women) with ages between 18 and 66 years. Participants had to repetitively perform a motor task in four different experimental conditions: two mirror conditions (performing real movements with the dominant and with the non-dominant hand) and two non-mirror conditions. A significant effect of the experimental condition on embodiment score (p < 0.001), response time (p < 0.001), performance time (p < 0.001), trajectory length (p < 0.004) and trajectory maximum horizontal deviation (p < 0.001) was observed. Furthermore, a significant effect of the experimental moment (initial, middle and final parts of the training) on the performance time was observed (p < 0.001). These results show that the monitored parameters provide relevant information to evaluate the participant's task performance in different experimental conditions.

Augmented reality (AR) is a technology in which computer-generated virtual images are dynamically superimposed upon a real-world scene to enhance a user's perceptions of the physical environment. A successful AR system requires that the overlaid digital information be aligned with the user's real-world senses - a process known as registration. An accurate registration process requires the knowledge of both the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters of the viewing device and these parameters form the viewing and projection transformations for creating the simulations of virtual images. In our previous work, an easy off-line calibration method in which an image-based automatic matching method was used to establish the world-to-image correspondences was presented, and it is able to achieve sub pixel accuracy. However, this off-line method yields accurate registration only when a user's eye placements relative to the display device coincides with locations established during the offline calibration process. A likely deviation of eye placements, for instance, due to helmet slippage or user-dependent factors such as interpupillary distance, will lead to misregistration. In this paper, a systematic on-line calibration framework to refine the off-line calibration results and to account for user-dependent factors is presented. Specifically, based on an equivalent viewing projection model, a six-parameter on-line calibration method to refine the user-dependent parameters in the viewing transformations is presented. Calibration procedures and results as well as evaluation experiments are described in detail. The evaluation experiments demonstrate the improvement of the registration accuracy.

A key feature of augmented reality (AR) is the ability to display virtual content that appears stationary as users move throughout the physical world ('world-locked rendering'). Imperfect world-locked rendering gives rise to perceptual artifacts that can negatively impact user experience. One example is random variation in the position of virtual objects that are intended to be stationary ('jitter'). The human visual system is highly attuned to detect moving objects, and moreover it can disambiguate between the retinal velocities that arise from object motion and self-motion, respectively. In this study, we investigated how the perceptibility of AR object jitter varies as a function of user self-motion. Using a commercially available AR HMD to display a 3D textured cube, we measured sensitivity to added jitter versus a no-jitter reference using a two-interval forced choice task. Three user motion conditions (stationary, head rotation, and walking) and three object placement conditions (floating in free space, on a desk, and against a wall) were tested in a full factorial design. We hypothesized that (1) as users move their head and eyes during self-motion, their sensitivity to jitter will decrease, due to added retinal velocity; and (2) rendering virtual objects near physical surfaces will increase sensitivity to jitter, by providing proximal veridical visual cues. Psychometric thresholds indicated that users were significantly less sensitive to jitter during self-motion than when they were stationary, consistent with hypothesis (1). Users were also more sensitive to jitter in one of the two object placement conditions, providing partial support for hypothesis (2). To generalize beyond distinct user motion and object placement conditions, we also analyzed eye tracking data. The amount of retinal slip (i.e. how much gaze drifted across the virtual object) predicted jitter thresholds better than recorded head movements alone, suggesting a retinally-driven decrease in jitter sensitivity during self-motion. These results can be used to inform requirements for AR world-locked rendering systems, as well as how these may be updated dynamically using online measurement of user head and eye movements.

Virtual Worlds are a significant new market environment for brand-building through experiential customer service interactions. Using value theory, this paper aims to assess the experiential brand value of real-life brands that have moved to the Virtual World of Second Life. A key premise is that current brand offerings in Virtual Worlds do not offer consumers adequate experiential value. The results demonstrate both the validity of an axiological approach to examining brand value, and highlight significant problems in consumer perceptions of the experiential value of brands within the Virtual World. A key finding is the difficulty in creating emotional brand value in Second Life which has serious implications for the sustainability of current real-life brands in Virtual Worlds. The paper rounds off with conclusions and implications for future research and practice in this very new area. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

This paper presents a robotic system that provides telepresence to the visually impaired by combining real-time haptic rendering with multi-modal interaction. A virtual-proxy based haptic rendering process using a RGB-D sensor is developed and integrated into a unified framework for control and feedback for the telepresence robot. We discuss the challenging problem of presenting environmental perception to a user with visual impairments and our solution for multi-modal interaction. We also explain the experimental design and protocols, and results with human subjects with and without visual impairments. Discussion on the performance of our system and our future goals are presented toward the end.

In the Virtual Reality field, presence refers to the sense of "being there" in the virtual world. Our aim in this work is to evaluate the usefulness of the Emotiv EPOC EEG device to measure the brain activations due to the sense of presence during the navigation in a Virtual Environment (VE), using for the analysis the sLORETA tool. We compare between two experimental conditions: free and automatic navigation through a VE. In this preliminary step, we monitored 9 healthy subjects, obtaining significant differences between the free and automatic navigation conditions in the activity of the right insula for the Theta and Alpha bands. The insula activation is related to stimulus attention and selfawareness processes, directly related with the sense of presence.

Although the integration of virtual world in teaching and learning has been investigated, there is a scarcity of research considering its influence on assessing learners' understanding and comparing it with traditional e-assessment tools such as that in Moodle quiz. In this research, a virtual reality (VR) game-based e-assessment application was designed first. Subsequently, the study aims at (1) understanding whether the type of e-assessment method can affect students' performance, and (2) investigating the difference in learners' perceptions based on the type of e-assessment technology. A combination of quasi-pre-test and post-test experimental and survey research design methods were adopted. Overall, 32 undergraduate students were assigned to either control (N=17) or experimental (N=15) group. The key findings are (1) no statistical differences in students' performance were found for both groups, and (2) significant differences between learners who completed the VR game-based e-assessment and those on the control group were found on perceived playfulness and ease of use. The conclusion drawn from the research outcomes is that a VR game-based e-assessment application is a successful approach to enhance learners' engagement in evaluation sessions, although students may face a lack of experience in its use. Z8 0

With the development of augmented reality technology in the future, its application environment is bound to be complex and diverse, and for some extreme weather scenarios, it is very important to solve the existing problems of optical transmission display system.In addition, solving the above problems is more conducive to improving the user's perception ability of scene information in the environment with low visibility. Therefore, by analyzing the problems existing in the augmented reality display system in extreme weather, this paper proposes a set of augmented reality display system for electric navigation. First, calibrate human eyes, tracking cameras and augmented reality display devices. Aiming at the distortion problem in the display process, a four-dimensional light field calibration theory was established to reduce the display error. The camera is used to obtain the scene information, and the 3D point cloud is obtained. By denoising the 3D point cloud, the instance segmentation algorithm is used to obtain the segmentation result of the scene target. Finally, the virtual image is displayed in the scene to display the navigation information in the power operation. The system can provide clear scene information for power operators in extreme weather conditions, effectively improving work efficiency and safety.

New emerging technologies have proven their efficacy in aiding people in their rehabilitation. The tests that are usually used to evaluate usability (in general) or user satisfaction (in particular) of this technology are not specifically focused on virtual rehabilitation and patients. The objective of this contribution is to present and evaluate the USEQ (User Satisfaction Evaluation Questionnaire). The USEQ is a questionnaire that is designed to properly evaluate the satisfaction of the user (which constitutes part of usability) in virtual rehabilitation systems. Forty patients with balance disorders completed the USEQ after their first session with ABAR (Active Balance Rehabilitation), which is a virtual rehabilitation system that is designed for the rehabilitation of balance disorders. Internal consistency analysis and exploratory factor analysis were carried out to identify the factor structure of the USEQ. The six items of USEQ were significantly associated with each other, and the Cronbach alpha coefficient for the questionnaire was 0.716. In an analysis of the principal components, a one-factor solution was considered to be appropriate. The findings of the study suggest that the USEQ is a reliable questionnaire with adequate internal consistency. With regard to patient perception, the patients found the USEQ to be an easy-to-understand questionnaire with a convenient number of questions.

Visualisation plays an important role in rock mechanics. Apart from the need to visualise the results of(sometimes very complex 3-D) numerical simulations, it is of advantage to get a good perception of geological conditions in the rock mass. Since all this information is three-dimensional, effective visualisation methods have to be used. A method which is ideally suited for this task is the method of virtual reality, which is currently extensively used in other areas of engineering (for example car, aircraft design etc.). The paper will present a visualisation system which has been developed over the last 3 years with the aim of enabling in a simple, user friendly way the visualisation of geological features in the rock mass and the results from numerical simulations of tunnel advance. Using a head mounted display with a positioning device the user can completely immerse in the data and visit a tunnel, observe the rock mass behaviour and the geological features using information stored in computer memory only. The user is then able to interpret the data and take appropriate actions as necessary during planning or construction of the tunnel. The Tunnel Visualisation System (TVS), which we plan to exhibit during the conference, runs on a PC under the Windows NT operating system.

Haptic-based tissue stiffness perception is essential for palpation training system, which can provide the surgeon haptic cues for improving the diagnostic abilities. However, current haptic devices, such as Geomagic Touch, fail to provide immersive and natural haptic interaction in virtual surgery due to the inherent mechanical friction, inertia, limited workspace and flawed haptic feedback. To tackle this issue, we design a novel magnetic levitation haptic device based on electromagnetic principles to augment the tissue stiffness perception in virtual environment. Users can naturally interact with the virtual tissue by tracking the motion of magnetic stylus using stereoscopic vision so that they can accurately sense the stiffness by the magnetic stylus, which moves in the magnetic field generated by our device. We propose the idea that the effective magnetic field (EMF) is closely related to the coil attitude for the first time. To fully harness the magnetic field and flexibly generate the specific magnetic field for obtaining required haptic perception, we adopt probability clouds to describe the requirement of interactive applications and put forward an algorithm to calculate the best coil attitude. Moreover, we design a control interface circuit and present a self-adaptive fuzzy proportion integration differentiation (PID) algorithm to precisely control the coil current. We evaluate our haptic device via a series of quantitative experiments which show the high consistency of the experimental and simulated magnetic flux density, the high accuracy (0.28 mm) of real-time 3D positioning and tracking of the magnetic stylus, the low power consumption of the adjustable coil configuration, and the tissue stiffness perception accuracy improvement by 2.38 percent with the self-adaptive fuzzy PID algorithm. We conduct a user study with 22 participants, and the results suggest most of the users can clearly and immersively perceive different tissue stiffness and easily detect the tissue abnormality. Experimental results demonstrate that our magnetic levitation haptic device can provide accurate tissue stiffness perception augmentation with natural and immersive haptic interaction.

With the increasing availability and quality of auditory and haptic means of interaction, it is not unusual to incorporate many modalities in interfaces rather than the purely visual. The user can be powerfully affected however when information presented in different modalities are combined to become multimodal. Providing interface designers with the means to implement haptic-audio interfaces might result in adverse effects to interaction unless they are also equipped with structured knowledge on how to select effective combinations of such information. This work introduces 'Integration of Information' as one important dimension of haptic-audio interaction and explores its effects in the context of multimodal texture perception. The range and resolution of available textures through force feedback interaction is a design consideration that might benefit from the addition of audio. This work looks at the effect of combining auditory and haptic textures on people's judgment of the roughness of a virtual surface. The combined haptic-audio percepts will vary in terms of how congruent they are in the information they convey regarding the frequency of bumps or ridges on the virtual surface. Three levels of integration (conflicting, redundant, or complementary) are described and their possible implications discussed in terms of enhancing texture perception with force-feedback devices.

We present a viewing model that is appropriate for several types of displays used in virtual environment systems, including head-mounted displays and head-tracked stationary displays. The model accounts for arbitrary size, placement, and orientation of the display images, and thus is suitable for various display designs. We provide algorithms for calculating stereoscopic viewing and projection matrices. The tracking algorithm models the position and orientation of the tracker's emitter and the displacement between the sensor and the user's eyes. The algorithms are presented as parameterized homogeneous transforms. We also discuss features that can be used to avoid accommodation/convergence conflicts. The advantages of this viewing model and algorithm are the elimination of possible vertical parallax, an undistorted perception of depth, and reduction of eye fatigue due to excessive parallax. All of these factors contribute to improved comfort and utility for the operator. Z8 0

The integration of virtual reality (VR) and multisensory experiences offers a novel approach to enhancing workspace design, particularly for home office environments. This preliminary study examines the effects of visual and olfactory stimuli in a VR-simulated smart home environment on presence, task performance, heart rate, and mood. Sensory conditions, including visual, olfactory, and combined stimuli, were controlled in an experiment with 60 participants to assess both physiological and psychological responses. Task performance was measured through cognitive tests, while heart rate and mood states were monitored using a heart rate sensor and the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), respectively. Statistical results showed that the sense of presence provided by VR and specific conditions-such as visual stimuli (e.g., intelligent lighting systems)- effectively enhanced work efficiency, with task performance under visual stimuli significantly outperforming that under olfactory stimuli (e.g., peppermint scent). However, these sensory stimuli did not significantly affect heart rate or emotions. Our findings underscore the potential of sensory design to improve task performance and highlight the importance of the sensory environment in designing home offices, suggesting that sensory stimuli can enhance work efficiency in remote or virtual work settings. Z8 0

This paper leverages recent strides in virtual reality (VR) technology to dissect user gaze patterns and initial responses in a VR-based in-store environment, with a focus on how visual elements impact attention in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI). Specifically, this exploratory study focuses on brand-centric components such as logos and colors, while also considering individual variables such as gender and design background. Employing a mixed-methods approach, the research combines qualitative and quantitative tools. A VR-integrated eye-tracking system records how participants' gaze behaves in a virtual retail environment. The study collects data from 50 participants in four scenarios: a control store (Case 1), introduction of the brand's logo signage (Case 2), infusion of the brand's primary color (Case 3), and a fusion of logo and color (Case 4). Two key eye-tracking metrics-time to first fixation (TTFF) and first fixation duration (FFD)-are harnessed to scrutinize gaze behavior across elements such as wall color, logo signage, wall display fixtures, and media screens. The research unearths statistically significant effects of visual elements on gaze behavior, with particular emphasis on TTFF and FFD. Gender disparities come to light in Cases 2, 3, and 4, affecting FFD on wall color (AOI 1) and TTFF on brand logo signage (AOI 2) in Case 2. Moreover, disparities in design background surface in Cases 1 and 3. Complementing the eye-tracking data and post-experiment interviews capture users' initial gaze attraction and preferences, offering valuable insights into their rationale. In essence, this study underscores the transformative potential of VR technology and eye-tracking techniques in HCI and furnishes actionable insights for those seeking to elevate brand recognition and consumer engagement within immersive virtual retail settings.

Telepresence robots can be used in different contexts with different goals; for example, to help remote individuals virtually attend classes and meetings, or to allow healthcare workers and patients in different locations to remain in touch. Although these robots bring about different advantages to mediated communication, telepresence pilots have been found to be perceived less favorably than people who are physically present in a communicative context [1]. Thus, in the current work, to mitigate the negative effects of using a telepresence robot, we examine whether an intervention to elicit empathy can influence the way remote participants are perceived. To this end, in a within-subject design, we asked participants (N=30) to follow text-based instructions to do a language learning activity in groups of three, in which one of the participants used a GoBe telepresence robot to join other co-situated group members. We embedded an intervention designed to create empathy with the telepresence operator in the last section of the activity and used two questionnaires, one before and one after the intervention, to collect participants' subjective evaluations of each other. Findings suggest that after the empathy-eliciting question, participants found the telepresence robot user significantly more trustworthy, reliable, and fascinated by art, music, or literature. Results indicate that the empathy-eliciting intervention has a positive effect on the way collocated participants perceive telepresence users.

Teleoperation is now common in high-risk work domains, particularly in surgery with the extensive use of remote, minimally invasive techniques. While this new technology affords a novel means by which to control human action for surgical intervention, interface design often constrains the operator in unorthodox ways, requiring considerable adaptation and raising patient safety concerns. There is a need to objectively measure operator adaptation, evaluate varying teleoperator inter-face designs and assess the efficacy of the virtual reality trainers that simulate teleoperation. This paper highlights the potential for a neuroergonomic approach to these problems. It first delineates some of the task demands unique to teleoperation in minimally invasive surgery and then speculates on the neural basis of those tasks with reference to select neuropsychological literature. The integration of this literature serves to indicate that teleoperation may engage a unique pattern of brain processing and that neuropsychological measurement may therefore be useful in evaluating the design of the teleoperation inter-face and teleoperator adaptation.

We present an experimental investigation of spatial audio feedback using smartphones to support direction localization in pointing tasks for people with visual impairments (PVIs). We do this using a mobile game based on a bow-and-arrow metaphor. Our game provides a combination of spatial and non-spatial (sound beacon) audio to help the user locate the direction of the target. Our experiments with sighted, sighted-blindfolded, and visually impaired users show that (a) the efficacy of spatial audio is relatively higher for PVIs than for blindfolded sighted users during the initial reaction time for direction localization, (b) the general behavior between PVIs and blindfolded individuals is statistically similar, and (c) the lack of spatial audio significantly reduces the localization performance even in sighted-blindfolded users. Based on our findings, we discuss the system and interaction design implications for making future mobile-based spatial interactions accessible to PVIs. Z8 0

Virtual reality therapy (VRT), based on this sophisticated technology, has been recently used in the treatment of subjects diagnosed with acrophobia, a disorder that is characterized by marked anxiety upon exposure to heights and avoidance of heights. Conventional VR systems for the treatment of acrophobia have limitations, over-costly devices or somewhat unrealistic graphic scenes. The goal of this study was to develop an inexpensive and more realistic virtual environment (VE) in which to perform exposure therapy for acrophobia. It is based on a personal computer, and a virtual scene of a bunge-jump tower in the middle of a large city. The virtual scenario includes an open lift surrounded by props beside a tower, which allows the patient to feel a sense of heights. The effectiveness of the VE was evaluated through the clinical treatment of a subject who was suffering from the fear of heights. As a result, it was proved that this VR environment was effective and realistic at overcoming acrophobia according not only to the comparison results of a variety of questionnaires before and after treatment but also to the subject's comments that the VE seemed to evoke more fearful feelings than the real situation.

The purpose of this study is to understand human perception of haptic feedback on the foot and validate a potential haptic-foot-feedback system for rehabilitation and virtual reality simulation. This study would provide insight into the design of haptic feedback systems and human perception involving vibrations on the sole and dorsal portion of the foot. The subject was set up with a disposable try-on sock and a haptic feedback device. The subject participated in 1 haptic feedback session that lasted approximately 1 hour. The haptic feedback was split into 5 procedures for 4 different conditions. The results of the experiment have shown subjects to have an average accuracy of 80% when trying to identify single motor vibrations on 12 discrete locations on the foot. When subjects experienced 2 simultaneous vibrations, they averaged 67.5% accuracy when identifying discrete motor locations. Subjects averaged accuracy of 57.4% during 3 simultaneous vibrations. The subjects averaged 79.8% accuracy when identifying the exact location and sequence of 3 motor vibrations spaced out by 0.5 seconds. The subjects averaged 67.9% accuracy when identifying 4 different shapes of vibrations on the sole. Overall, subjects averaged 71.2% accuracy throughout the entire procedure. An ANOVA concluded the type of motor was not statistically significant to the human perception and demonstrated a statistical significance on the number of simultaneous vibrations during feedback (p<.001). The results of this study show a basis for understanding human perception of vibrotactile feedback on the foot with potential applications in sports performance and rehabilitation.

In order to accurately and quantitatively describe the influence of a building's spatial environment on subjective human perception, this research establishes a relationship framework between the spatial environment and subjective feelings, with the goal of improving occupant satisfaction and work efficiency. In pursuit of this goal, this study presents actual scenes through virtual space and introduces a new research concept for analyzing human brain data. The researchers adopted virtual reality technology in a controlled laboratory environment to compose building simulation spaces and created immersive space perceptions in response to different scenarios. Neural signal electroencephalogram (EEG) data were obtained in the simulation space from participants wearing EEG signal acquisition caps. The experiment process was divided into two phases: scene cognition and task performance. Changes in human perception, as measured on physiological, psychological, and work efficiency indexes, were examined in three environments: open natural, semi-open library, and closed basement spaces. Based on a 32-point analysis of the EEGs of 30 subjects, researchers determined four points and one region with the most significant EEG changes after scene switching. Also, by examining the EEG rhythms in the scene cognition experiment phase, the authors identified a coupling relationship between beta rhythms and total time to task completion, proving the mechanistic relationship between beta rhythms and work efficiency. Finally, this research revealed a correlation between subjective perception and physiological signals by analyzing the relevance of the connection between subjective questionnaire responses and the beta rhythms demonstrated in the EEG experiment, and then deducing the mechanism affecting work efficiency as influenced by different environments. The results obtained show that in the context of changes to elements of a building's spatial environment, human work efficiency is most related to the beta rhythms at several test points and the right temporal lobe region of the brain. Moreover, beta rhythms are closely related to satisfaction with human spatial perception. Therefore, this research provides a more accurate set of reference information for building space design based on occupant satisfaction and physical and mental health. The methods and conclusions demonstrated here can be adopted as feedback for ways of obtaining more realistic information from human brain signals and using those data to optimize architectural space design. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Autonomous robotic vehicles (i.e., drones) are potentially transformative for search and rescue (SAR). This paper works toward wearable interfaces, through which humans team with multiple drones. We introduce the Virtual Drone Search Game as a first step in creating a mixed reality simulation for humans to practice drone teaming and SAR techniques. Our goals are to (1) evaluate input modalities for the drones, derived from an iterative narrowing of the design space, (2) improve our mixed reality system for designing input modalities and training operators, and (3) collect data on how participants socially experience the virtual drones with which they work. In our study, 17 participants played the game with two input modalities (Gesture condition, Tap condition) in counterbalanced order. Results indicated that participants performed best with the Gesture condition. Participants found the multiple controls challenging, and future studies might include more training of the devices and game. Participants felt like a team with the drones and found them moderately agentic. In our future work, we will extend this testing to a more externally valid mixed reality game.

The uncanny valley effect has sparked interest in fields such as humanoid robotics and hyper-realistic virtual animation. Nonetheless, proof of its existence in artificial intelligence (AI) news anchors remains limited. This study examined the existence and effect of the uncanny valley in AI news anchors. Particularly, it delved into human perception and behavior during interactions with AI news anchors. Results showed that AI news anchors failed to establish emotional bonds with audiences, and thus fell within the uncanny valley. Audiences were sensitive to minor defects and oddities in the AI news anchors, and felt eerie while watching them. Findings of this study can be used to formulate guidelines for the design of the appearance and behavior of not only AI news anchors but all humanoid AI characters.

In the process of selective assembly for precision and complex mechanical products, it is necessary to perform the selective material kitting one by one and conduct check repeatedly according to the optimal matching result to ensure quality. The traditional manual picking and checking method by Bill of Material is inefficient and laborious. Currently, there is still no consensus reached on how to better transmit information and implement the material kitting in the course of selective assembly. In this paper, we pioneer in testing the performance between mainstream methods (Pick-by-Voice, Pick-by-Light, Pick-by-AR) and traditional methods (Pick-by-Paper) in terms of task time, errors, workload, and information perception for the selective material kitting. We developed an AR (augmented reality) on the level of material individual information level and verified its applicability. Meanwhile, we enhanced the effect of material individual information expression from different visual perspectives. We found that Pick-by-AR can outperform others in terms of selective assembly, which means expanding the dimension of information expression and enhancing users' perception of information can help users quickly and accurately select parts with the same appearance but different quality characteristics fast and accurately, thus providing a viable option for material kitting in the selective assembly process.

While providing exciting opportunities for spatial computing, current generation augmented reality (AR) headsets face visual quality and visual comfort issues. Designing headsets that are both perceptually accurate and comfortable to use for extended periods is difficult as these devices rely on state-of-the-art developments in optics, display technology, spatial computing and graphics. Understanding the requirements and parameters needed to create great AR devices currently requires expensive and time consuming prototype development and user research. Here, we present the AR-in-VR Simulator, a tool to facilitate rapid AR device prototyping and user research of the perceptual requirements needed for AR systems by simulating various display, optics and rendering properties of AR systems and presenting them in a virtual reality (VR) headset. Our simulator is suitable for conducting perceptual research on various potential AR device properties and artefacts, such as FOV size and shape, stereoscopic display configurations, and luminance and color non-uniformity. Simulations can be presented in realistic 3D environments, passthrough VR, or even Gaussian Splat environments allowing for a range of naturalistic data collection possibilities. We further demonstrate the utility of the simulator by using it to extend prior work on the perception of partially overlapping stereoscopic AR displays to a 6DOF VR simulation, capturing more ecologically valid and natural user interaction compared to traditional stereoscope based perceptual studies.

The use of virtual reality in the form of simulated tasks can provide a realistic environment in which to study complex naturalistic behaviors. Many of the behavioral effects of alcohol intoxication are well known, but there is relatively little imaging evidence examining how alcohol exposure might transiently modulate brain function, especially in the context of task performance. In this review, we provide a brief synopsis of previous work using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the neural correlates of alcohol intoxication. We describe in detail two studies from our published work, the first involving a visual perception paradigm, and the second involving virtual reality through a naturalistic behavior; simulated driving. Participants received single-blind individualized doses of beverage alcohol designed to produce blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.04 and 0.08 or placebo. Subjects were fMRI scanned after training to asymptote performance. In both studies we found specific circuits that were differentially modulated by alcohol, we revealed both global and local effects of alcohol, and we examined relationships between behavior, brain function, and alcohol blood levels. Z8 1

In this article, we report on a user study investigating the effects of multisensory cues on triggering the emotional response in immersive games. Yet, isolating the effect of a specific sensory cue on the emotional state is a difficult feat. The performed experiment is a first of a series that aims at producing usable guidelines that can be applied to reproducing similar emotional responses, as well as the methods to measure the effects. As such, we are interested in methodologies to both design effective stimuli, and assess the quality and effect thereof. We start with identifying main challenges and the followed methodology. Thereafter, we closely analyze the study results to address some of the challenges, and identify where the potential is for improving the induced stimuli (cause) and effect, as well as the analytical methods used to pinpoint the extent of the effect.

Human motor skills are critical for executing a variety range of tasks in construction. Traditional hands-on training is resource and labor intensive, whereas virtual training, such as video demonstrations, cannot provide trainees with egocentric kinesthetic or proprioceptive experience such as muscular engagement. It is important to develop remote training methods that can provide rich sensory feedback and leverage the trainee's proprioception. This paper proposes a novel remote motor skill training system that can transfer experts' kinematic and kinesthetic experience, including both positional and force experience, to novice trainees by using virtual reality (VR) and a robot arm without the physical presence of the experts. The system uses VR to simulate virtual operation scenarios and interactions to provide an immersive operation experience. The robotic system records experts' kinematic and kinesthetic patterns and trains novices with perceptual learning. The system design was demonstrated with a welding training task. A welding simulator was built with a Unity engine and a seven-degrees-of-freedom robot arm, which provided high-fidelity welding experience and could actively guide welding trainees. It was found that the welding simulator was resilient to external disturbance and provided accurate feedback and guidance. The proposed system contributes to the design of a more embodied remote motor skill training method.

Spatial audio is enjoying a surge in attention in both scene and object based paradigms, due to the trend for, and accessibility of, immersive experience. This has been enabled through convergence in computing enhancements, component size reduction, and associated price reductions. For the first time, applications such as virtual reality (VR) are technologies for the consumer. Audio for VR is captured to provide a counterpart to the video or animated image, and can be rendered to combine elements of physical and psychoacoustic modelling, as well as artistic design. Given that distance is an inherent property of spatial audio, that it can augment sound's efficacy in cueing user attention (a problem which practitioners are seeking to solve), and that conventional film sound practices have intentionally exploited its use, the absence of research on its implementation and effects in immersive environments is notable. This paper sets out the case for its importance, from a perspective of research and practice. It focuses on cinematic VR, whose challenges for spatialized audio are clear, and at times stretches beyond the restrictions specific to distance in audio for VR, into more general audio constraints.

In a classroom, obtaining active, whole-focused, and engaging learning results from a design is often difficult. In this study, we propose a self-observation model that employs an instinctive interface for classroom active learning. Students can communicate with virtual avatars in the vertical screen and can react naturally according to the situation and tasks. Students can also immediately observe themselves mixed with a virtual environment and therefore reflect on the necessary improvements. With the designed system, potential advantages such as motivation, enjoyment, context for situated learning, engagement, social collaboration, and role-playing might arise. To examine the idea, we conducted a case study with 60 fourth grade elementary students to investigate learners' behavior as performers and peer audience and their perception of body movements and speech commands in the designed learning environment. The results show that the students' image in the vertical screen affected the students and the peer audience positively. Moreover, they positively perceived their competence and their enjoyment after they performed contextual learning activities through the body movement interface. Z8 0

Sensations of heat and touch produced by receptors in the skin are of essential importance for perceptions of the physical environment, with a particularly powerful role in interpersonal interactions. Advances in technologies for replicating these sensations in a programmable manner have the potential not only to enhance virtual/augmented reality environments but they also hold promise in medical applications for individuals with amputations or impaired sensory function. Engineering challenges are in achieving interfaces with precise spatial resolution, power - efficient operation, wide dynamic range, and fast temporal responses in both thermal and in physical modulation, with forms that can extend over large regions of the body. This paper introduces a wireless, skin - compatible interface for thermo - haptic modulation designed to address some of these challenges, with the ability to deliver programmable patterns of enhanced vibrational displacement and high - speed thermal stimulation. Experimental and computational investigations quantify the thermal and mechanical efficiency of a vertically stacked design layout in the thermo - haptic stimulators that also supports real - time, closed - loop control mechanisms. The platform is effective in conveying thermal and physical information through the skin, as demonstrated in the control of robotic prosthetics and in interactions with sensitive touch

Background: Immersive virtual reality (IVR) as a research platform to study human behaviors is an emerging field and may be useful for studying self-care management, especially in the gap between formal healthcare recommendations and day-to-day living. Self-care activities, such as grocery shopping, can be challenging for people with chronic illness. We developed an IVR environment that simulates a real-life grocery store and conducted a usability study to demonstrate the safety and acceptability of IVR as an experimental environment. Methods: This study was a three-arm randomized control trial involving 24 participants, conducted as a usability study to evaluate aspects of the experimental condition including the effectiveness of a training exposure, the occurrence of undesirable effects associated with IVR, and participants' experiences of realism, immersion, and spatial presence. The experiment, using a head mounted device and handheld controllers, included a 10-minute training exposure, followed by one of three unique 30-minute experimental conditions which exposed participants to different combinations of tasks and stimuli, and a post-experience interview. We measured controller errors, undesirable symptoms associated with IVR, and the perception of realism, immersion, and spatial presence. Results: Participants used controllers effectively to interact within the IVR environment. Hand controller use errors were fewer during the experimental conditions compared to the training exposure. Minimal undesirable IVR symptoms were reported. Presence was rated in the middle range with no significant differences based on experimental condition. Overall, user experience feedback was positive. Conclusions: We demonstrated that participants could engage in our IVR environment without excessive error or experiencing undesirable effects and confirmed that the virtual experience attained a level of presence necessary to effectively engage in the study. These findings give us confidence that this IVR intervention designed to explore instrumental activities of daily living is safe, effective and provides a credible, controlled simulated community-like setting.

Virtual environments (VE) and haptic interfaces (HI) tend to be introduced as virtual prototyping tools to assess ergonomic features of workstations. These approaches are cost-effective and convenient since working directly on the Digital Mock-Up in a VE is preferable to constructing a physical mock-up in a Real Environment (RE). However it can be usable only if the ergonomic conclusions made from the VE are similar to the ones you would make in the real world. This article aims at evaluating the impact of visual and haptic renderings in terms of biomechanical fidelity for pick-and-place tasks. Fourteen subjects performed time-constrained pick-and-place tasks in RE and VE with a real and a virtual, haptic driven object at three different speeds. Motion of the hand and muscles activation of the upper limb were recorded. A questionnaire assessed subjectively discomfort and immersion. The results revealed significant differences between measured indicators in RE and VE and with real and virtual object. Objective and subjective measures indicated higher muscle activity and higher length of the hand trajectories in VE and with HI. Another important element is that no cross effect between haptic and visual rendering was reported. Theses results confirmed that such systems should be used with caution for ergonomics evaluation, especially when investigating postural and muscle quantities as discomfort indicators. The last contribution of the paper lies in an experimental setup easily replicable to asses more systematically the biomechanical fidelity of virtual environments for ergonomics purposes.

Purpose - Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies are evolving, with scholars highlighting important roles and potential advantages for their use, particularly in the hospitality sector. This bibliometric study examined VR/AR research in the hospitality industry to take stock of the literature in this field and consider potential future directions. Methodology/Design/Approach - Using the Web of Science database, 213 relevant articles were selected and analyzed. Descriptive analysis was conducted using RStudio to identify the most productive countries, journals, authors, and institutions. The most influential topics were identified using keyword co -occurrence analysis in VOSviewer. Findings - The results revealed that VR/AR research in the hospitality sector has recently gained prominence, with China leading in contributions. Three major clusters of themes emerged: (i) the impact of VR on hospitality, tourism, and destinations; (ii) technology enhancing satisfaction and performance in hotels ; and (iii) user acceptance of AR in travel. Originality of the research - This study offers an overview of VR/AR research trends in the hospitality industry based on a bibliometric analysis of literature data from the Web of Science database. It provides research mapping to identify current developments in the VR/ AR literature within this and sheds on areas for future research.

PurposeThe application of mobile augmented reality (MAR) for enhancing user experiences and consumer patronizing intention has been the focus of recent MAR literature. Few studies examine the differences between apps. This study fills the research gap by examining how consumers assess their experiences with different MAR applications and how their decision-making process is performed, particularly in the setting of smartphones.Design/methodology/approachA web-based online survey was administered to collect data on consumers' perceptions of two different MAR apps: utilitarian and hedonic apps. Reliability and validity of the measurement scales, non-response bias and comment method bias were assessed. With the support of measurement model, partial least square (PLS) was employed to test the research hypotheses.FindingsThis study reveals that the technological attributes of augmented reality (AR) apps have significant effects on consumer perceptions of their utilitarian and hedonic benefits, including interactivity, visual quality, service quality, technicality and aesthetics. Moreover, this study shows that consumers of hedonic apps place more importance on their enjoyment with the MAR app; consumers of utilitarian apps focus more on the accrued functional values. The findings provide practical insights for retailers in AR marketing and application development in the MAR environment.Originality/valueThis study provides a comprehensive viewpoint for analyzing ongoing use and purchase intentions simultaneously in a unified theoretical framework. In addition, it compares different types of MAR apps: hedonic and utilitarian. Furthermore, it is one of the first few studies attempting to provide a comprehensive understanding of the predictive role of MAR technologies by incorporating privacy concerns into the research model based on user and gratification framework.

Mixed reality (MR) technologies and applications, including interpersonal communication, are rapidly evolving. Despite its promise, peoples' actual needs concerning the advanced uses of MR are less studied. To address this knowledge gap, we conducted two focus group user studies in which we explored people's perceptions, expectations, and ideas concerning remote interpersonal MR communication and collaboration. In the first study we examined people's perceptions of MR and the study participants collaboratively created 21 scenarios for MR communication. For the second study, the most promising of these scenarios were selected and refined to develop three different types of scenarios: one with emotional content, one emphasizing entertainment and one focused on work-related situations. The scenarios were evaluated by the participants of the second study in the context of a specific MR communication system that uses near-eye displays. The results indicate that the expected advantages of MR in communication are its efficiency, richness and the increased feeling of presence over distance. However, concerns were raised about the technical reliability, usability and accessibility of advanced MR applications. Work and entertainment use contexts were preferred over emotional communication. Maintaining close emotional relationships was perceived to require real physical presence and interaction instead of being technology- mediated.

In accordance with the recent enhancement of display technology, users demand a higher quality of streaming service, which escalates the bandwidth requirement. Considering the recent advent of high FPS (frame per second) 4K and 8K resolution 360 degrees videos, such bandwidth concern further intensifies in 360 degrees Virtual Reality (VR) content streaming even at a larger scale. However, the currently available bandwidth in most of the developed countries can hardly support the bandwidth required to stream such a scale of content. To address the mismatch between the demand on higher quality of streaming service and the saturated network improvement, we propose SALI360 that practically solves the mismatch by utilizing the characteristics of the human vision system (HVS). By pre-rendering a set of regions - where viewers are expected to fixate - on 360 degrees VR content in higher quality than the other regions, SALI360 improves viewers' quality of perception (QoP) while reducing content size with geometry-based 360 degrees content encoding. In our user experiment, we compare the performance of SALI360 to the existing 360 degrees content-encoding techniques based on 20 viewers' head movement and eye gaze traces. To evaluate viewers' QoP, we propose FoL (field of look) that captures viewers' quality perception area in the visual focal field (8 degrees) rather than a wide (around 90 degrees) field of view (FoV). Results of our experimental 360 degrees VR video streaming show that SALI360 achieves 53.3% of PSNR improvement in FoL, while gaining 9.3% of PSNR improvement in FoV. In addition, our subjective study on 93 participants verifies that SALI360 improves viewers' QoP in the 360 degrees VR streaming service.

We introduce a novel approach of applying stereoscopy principles to simulate a virtual 3D pointing device based on two or more views of an ordinary mouse cursor. The system assists a user point to a desired location inside the virtual 3D space projected by a stereoscopic display. The technique is designed for easy perception, and thus interpretation, of depth information in a 3D context. A target application is the measuring of ground truth for 3D medical data. To illustrate how our virtual stereoscopic cursor works, we have implemented a multi-view stereo visualization software and a simple 3D editing toolset for manipulating 3D objects. Experimental results suggest the effectiveness of using the device in term of detection accuracy and user satisfaction compared to using an ordinary mouse on a conventional 2D screen.

Despite being purposefully designed and strategically placed in buildings to facilitate efficient evacuation, emergency exit doors are frequently underutilized during evacuations. To address this issue, this study explores why individuals often fail to use emergency exit doors during evacuations via a virtual reality and eye -tracking experimental study and investigates human emergency wayfinding behaviors through the lens of perceptions and attention. The results show that individuals' attention to wayfinding clues is positively related to their exit choices. Failure to notice an emergency exit door is a key contributor to explaining how familiarity affects the usage of the emergency exit door. Participants in the familiarity group were less likely to pay attention to the exit door and thus rarely use it. However, when participants had fixations on the door, their exit choices were not significantly different between the familiarity and unfamiliarity groups. In the present experiment, door color and type did not have a significant impact on participants' visual attention and exit choices. Specifically, the effect of door type on participants' exit choices was impaired by the presence of the stairwell sign. The experimental results reveal the conspicuity and visibility of exit doors and explicit and clear wayfinding information are crucial to increasing their usage during indoor evacuations.

To assess perception with and performance of modern and future hearing devices with advanced adaptive signal processing capabilities, novel evaluation methods are required that go beyond already established methods. These novel methods will simulate to a certain extent the complexity and variability of acoustic conditions and acoustic communication styles in real life. This article discusses the current state and the perspectives of virtual reality technology use in the lab for designing complex audiovisual communication environments for hearing assessment and hearing device design and evaluation. In an effort to increase the ecological validity of lab experiments, that is, to increase the degree to which lab data reflect real-life hearing-related function, and to support the development of improved hearing-related procedures and interventions, this virtual reality lab marks a transition from conventional (audio-only) lab experiments to the field. The first part of the article introduces and discusses the notion of the communication loop as a theoretical basis for understanding the factors that are relevant for acoustic communication in real life. From this, requirements are derived that allow an assessment of the extent to which a virtual reality lab reflects these factors, and which may be used as a proxy for ecological validity. The most important factor of real-life communication identified is a closed communication loop among the actively behaving participants. The second part of the article gives an overview of the current developments towards a virtual reality lab at Oldenburg University that aims at interactive and reproducible testing of subjects with and without hearing devices in challenging communication conditions. The extent to which the virtual reality lab in its current state meets the requirements defined in the first part is discussed, along with its limitations and potential further developments. Finally, data are presented from a qualitative study that compared subject behavior and performance in two audiovisual environments presented in the virtual reality lab-a street and a cafeteria-with the corresponding field environments. The results show similarities and differences in subject behavior and performance between the lab and the field, indicating that the virtual reality lab in its current state marks a step towards more ecological validity in lab-based hearing and hearing device research, but requires further development towards higher levels of ecological validity.

The ever-emerging mobile market induced a blooming interest in stylus-based interactions. Most state-of-the-art styluses either provide no haptic feedback or only deliver one type of sensation, such as vibration or skin stretch. Improving these devices with display abilities of a palette of tactile feels can pave the way for rendering realistic surface sensations, resulting in more natural virtual experiences. However, integrating necessary actuators and sensors while keeping the compact form factor of a stylus for comfortable user interactions challenges their design. This situation also limits the scientific knowledge of relevant parameters for rendering compelling artificial textures for stylus-based interactions. To address these challenges, we developed FeelPen, a haptic stylus that can display multimodal texture properties (compliance, roughness, friction, and temperature) on touchscreens. We validated the texture rendering capability of our design by conducting system identification and psychophysical experiments. The experimental results confirmed that FeelPen could render a variety of modalities with wide parameter ranges necessary to create perceptually salient texture feels, making it a one-of-a-kind stylus. Our unique design and experimental results pave the way for new perspectives with stylus-based interactions on future touchscreens.

Augmented Reality (AR) technology creates new immersive experiences in entertainment, games, education, retail, and social media. AR content is often primarily visual and it is challenging to enable access to it non-visually due to the mix of virtual and real-world content. In this paper, we identify common constituent tasks in AR by analyzing existing mobile AR applications for iOS, and characterize the design space of tasks that require accessible alternatives. For each of the major task categories, we create prototype accessible alternatives that we evaluate in a study with 10 blind participants to explore their perceptions of accessible AR. Our study demonstrates that these prototypes make AR possible to use for blind users and reveals a number of insights to move forward. We believe our work sets forth not only exemplars for developers to create accessible AR applications, but also a roadmap for future research to make AR comprehensively accessible.

The digital transformation of the industry allows the optimization of resources through enabling technology that virtualizes the behavior of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) along the entire value chain. However, these virtual environments characterized by machine -to -machine interactions lacked the presence of humans who are at the center of the next defined industrial revolution, Industry 5.0. The goal is for humans to be actively integrated into these virtual environments called metaverses where interactions with environmental digital assets are possible. To achieve this human -centered industrial metaverse perspective, it is necessary to provide humans with technologies that allow them to reach a more immersive and realistic conception of the production processes. For this purpose, we present in this paper, a framework based on hyperconnectivity where several enabling technologies (e.g., Digital Twins, Virtual Reality, Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT)) are integrated in order to converge towards the industrial human -centered metaverse. To validate our framework, a demonstrator has been developed enabling the evaluation of the behavior of humans in virtual environments when facing collaborative tasks that require human -to -human interaction. Within the evaluation of this demonstrator, an experiment based on an assembly that requires interaction with an autonomous vehicle has been carried out both in reality and in the virtual world. The results obtained indicate that the avatars' metaverse performance is closer to reality when individuals have previous experience with VR goggles, even proving, in this case, the effectiveness of metaverse for industrial operators' training. In addition, the performance of the application has been evaluated with technical parameters and the perception of the users has been analyzed by conducting a survey receiving very positive feedback and results. Therefore, the industrial metaverse, blending cutting -edge tech with a human -centric approach for Industry 5.0, is now a reality. Z8 0

Skin-stimulation technology has attracted intense attention for virtual/augmented reality applications and tactile-feedback systems. However, bulky, heavy, and stiff characteristics of existing skin-stimulating devices limit their wearability and comfort, thus disturbing the immersive experience of users. This study presents a new type of thin and lightweight dielectric elastomer actuator for developing a skin-mountable vibrotactile stimulator. A new methodology is suggested to enhance the operating efficiency of dielectric elastomer actuators based on a laterally aligned dielectric multilayer structure (approximate to 900 layer) with short dielectric distance (approximate to 10 mu m) and a soft elastomer/ionic liquid composite with low modulus and high dielectric constant. With the improved structural/material properties, the flexible actuator exhibits high displacements at low operating voltage (<200 V) over a wide frequency range (approximate to 800 Hz). Therefore, the finger-band type vibrotactile stimulator based on the laterally multilayered dielectric elastomer actuators can exert indentations that have the ability of stimulating all mechanoreceptors in human skin over the full perception frequency/amplitude range. In addition, the actuator shows a high electromechanical stability for long-term operation due to time-efficient and precise fabrication process using sophisticated photolithography and secondary sputtering. Therefore, this vibrotactile stimulator shows high promise for use in tactile-assistive devices, tactile communications, haptic feedback, and beyond. Z8 2

This article examines the impact of augmented reality (AR) visualizations on users' sense of physical presence, knowledge gain, and perceptions of the authenticity of journalistic visuals. In a mixed experimental design, 79 participants were randomly assigned to view three The New York Times articles on a mobile phone featuring one of three viewing modalities: (1) AR visualizations, (2) interactive (non-AR) visualizations, or (3) non-interactive, static visualizations. AR induced a greater sense of physical presence compared to the other modalities. The findings suggest that immersive properties of AR can contribute to journalism's goal of engaging the audience. However, AR was not a superior medium for informing the participants, and the viewing modality did not have an effect on the perceived authenticity of the visuals. The findings indicate a need for more efficient ways to relay information through journalistic AR visualizations while keeping the user engaged in an immersive experience.

This paper investigates depth judgment-related performances of X-ray visualization techniques for rendering fully occluded geometries in augmented reality. The techniques we selected for this evaluation are careless overlay (CO), edge overlay (EO), excavation box (EB) and a cross-sectional visualization technique (CS). We have designed and conducted a comprehensive user study with 16 participants to examine and analyze the effects related to visualization techniques, having additional virtual objects and the scale of the vertical depths. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first user study on judged vertical depth distances that these techniques were compared against each other. We report our findings using four dependent variables: accuracy, signed error, absolute error and response time to shed some light into real-world performances and also to reveal estimation tendencies of each technique. Our findings suggest similar and better performance for EB, CS compared to CO and EO. We also observed significantly better results for EB and CS techniques when judging Top and Bottom distances compared to Middle distances. Derived from our findings, we proposed a new visualization technique for underground investigation with multiple views. The multi-view technique is our own implementation inspired by magic lens and cross-sectional visualizations with correlating displays.

Rapid advances in computer and display technologies have made it possible to present high quality virtual reality (VR) environment. To use such virtual environments effectively, research should be performed into how users perceive and react to virtual environment in view of particular human factors. We created a VR simulation of sea fish for science education, and we conducted an experiment to examine how observers perceive the size and depth of an object within their reach and evaluated their visual fatigue. We chose a multi-projection system for presenting the educational VR simulation, because this system can provide actual-size objects and produce stereo images located close to the observer. The results of the experiment show that estimation of size and depth was relatively accurate when subjects used physical actions to assess them. Presenting images within the observer's reach is suggested to be useful for education in VR environment. Evaluation of visual fatigue shows that the level of symptoms from viewing stereo images with a large disparity in VR environment was low in a short time.

Introduction. The evolution of the internet and new technologies have transformed the media ecosystem, opening the door to new narrative trends. In this scenario, many news media outlets have begun to use technologies such as virtual reality and resources like 360-degree video in their production processes, which constitutes a novel form of journalism production known as Immersive Journalism. Methods. The aim of this article is to analyse how European news media outlets organise and disseminate their immersive offer (360-degree videos) based on the study of seven case studies in order to determine whether their strategies in fact help users to locate, search and access such contents. Results and conclusions. The study concludes that the diverse sections and apps of the seven cases analysed exhibit several weaknesses that complicate the access and, consequently, the consumption of the 360-degree videos available.

Physically accurate (authentic) reproduction of affective touch patterns on the forearm is limited by actuator technology. However, in most VR applications a direct comparison with actual touch is not possible. Here, the plausibility is only compared to the user's expectation. Focusing on the approach of plausible instead of authentic touch reproduction enables new rendering techniques, like the utilization of the phantom illusion to create the sensation of moving vibrations. Following this idea, a haptic armband array (4x2 vibrational actuators) was built to investigate the possibilities of recreating plausible affective touch patterns with vibration. The novel aspect of this work is the approach of touch reproduction with a parameterized rendering strategy, enabling the integration in VR. A first user study evaluates suitable parameter ranges for vibrational touch rendering. Duration of vibration and signal shape influence plausibility the most. A second user study found high plausibility ratings in a multimodal scenario and confirmed the expressiveness of the system. Rendering device and strategy are suitable for a various stroking patterns and applicable for emerging research on social affective touch reproduction.

Immersive experiences seek to engage the full sensory system in ways that words, pictures, or touch alone cannot. With respect to the haptic system, however, physical feedback has been provided primarily with handheld tactile experiences or vibration-based designs, largely ignoring both pressure receptors and the full upper-body area as conduits for expressing meaning that is consistent with sight and sound. We extend the potential for immersion along these dimensions with the Force Jacket, a novel array of pneumatically-actuated airbags and force sensors that provide precisely directed force and high frequency vibrations to the upper body. We describe the pneumatic hardware and force control algorithms, user studies to verify perception of airbag location and pressure magnitude, and subsequent studies to define full-torso, pressure and vibration-based feel effects such as punch, hug, and snake moving across the body. We also discuss the use of those effects in prototype virtual reality applications.

This paper describes the use and characteristics of a virtual reality system called the Virtual Technical Trainer (VTT). This system is dedicated to vocational training courses on using and programming numerically-control led milling machines. It aims at replacing the conventional mechanical milling machines which are Currently used in such vocational training courses. VTT proposes an interactive manipulation of a cutter of a virtual milling machine, with visual, audio and haptic (force) feedback. VTT uses a haptic device which was specifically designed for the purpose Of Our pedagogical application. When the virtual cutter mills a piece of material, a plastic deformation algorithm is used and the material is progressively carved. Trainees can feet the cutting effort thanks to a force feedback which varies as a function of different simulation parameters (rotation speed of the tool, type of material to carve, etc). Realistic audio feedback (which was recorded in real situations) and additional Visual assistances may be added, in order to increase the perception and understanding of the milling task. A preliminary evaluation of VTT showed that this Simulator could be used by vocational trainers successfully. It could help them to teach the basic principles of machining at the first stages of vocational training Courses on numerically-controlled milling machines.

One of the most controversial dilemmas in virtual reality laparoscoptc simulators design is the incorporation of force feedback (FF). This issue is approached with an experimental design in which surgeons assess the resistance against pulling of four different tissues, which are characterized with the acquisition of interaction forces. Comparing subjective assessments with objective force parameters we aim to determine the fidelity boundary beyond which no more realism is necessary in simulation. Interaction pulling forces of four tissues have been characterized, which can constitute a basis for requirements of a FF algorithm. Results have also led to the hypothesis that surgeons are able to differentiate tissues and perceive somesthesic information although resulting interaction forces are of the same magnitude than interferences like trocar friction.

Mechanical latency is the time elapsed between the driver's input and the subsequent movement of a driving simulator. Large latencies may overlap with the time constants of a vehicle, thus altering its dynamics. As latency introduces inconsistencies between the driver's input and the vehicle's response, it may also result in motion sickness. The paper describes the design and the results of a test campaign conceived to understand how mechanical latency impacts the perception of lateral dynamics. In particular, the research aimed at identifying the minimal variation of latency perceived by ordinary drivers. Tests were performed with an innovative cable-driven simulator moving over a 6 x 6 metre platform. A rigorous test procedure was designed while several volunteers of different ages and driving experiences were required to perform a specific manoeuvre with different latencies. The results showed that 20% of the population can perceive latency variations below 40 ms.

Virtual reality-based urban audit methods are gaining increasing attention; however, most virtual urban audit studies have focused on panoramic views. The 3D city model-based geovisualizations have remained until now rather unexplored in user studies for urban audits and for communicative urban planning. We explored the feasibility of a 3D geovisualization-based urban audit in virtual reality (VR) for assessing the perceived quality of an urban park deck in Helsinki, Finland. For this purpose, we created a photorealistic and geometrically accurate 3D model (Bryga 3D) based on photogrammetric and laser scanning data. Bryga 3D was implemented on a game engine to be viewed with a head-mounted VR display. Bryga 3D's ability to convey information in a subjective urban audit, that is, subjectively perceived affordances of a park deck, was tested in a walk-along interview study comparing auditing in situ and via the VR method. A comparison of the results with in-situ (n = 13) and VR interviews (n = 21) show that the perception of several tangible elements, such as spatial division, landforms, paths, and chairs when using Bryga VR was similar to when performed in situ. Perception of vegetation was weaker in VR in terms of its detailed quality, which somewhat affected the presented development ideas and assessment of the seasonal context. Also, weaker perception of the surroundings and city context affected the results in VR. However, considering that Bryga 3D presents an example of a highly automated 3D city modeling process conducted with minimal manual work, its results are encouraging for future attempts to advance such realizations for the purposes of communicative urban planning. 3D geovisualization-based virtual audits could be used when urban green space audits are not possible or when they are demanding to implement in situ.

This article describes an approach in which the modeling and simulation process for the indoor climate of buildings takes place entirely in a virtual reality (VR) environment. In this way, the simulation expert is immersively involved with regard to the spatial design, spatial perception and interaction with the spatial model. The simulated indoor climate resulting from the interactions and other variables such as energy demands are visualized in the VR environment as a feedback to the user. To implement the described approach in terms of software, the Modelica tool Dymola was integrated with the game engine Unity to form a complete system, with bidirectional data exchange taking place between the two programs. The building model of the Modelica library BuildingSystems forms the basis of the building physics calculations in Dymola. In Unity, a headmounted display was integrated to implement the VR simulation environment, and the two modes "modeling" and "simulation" were prototypically implemented and evaluated in a simulation scenario.

Virtual agents (VAs) have been used effectively for psychoeducation. However, getting the VA's design right is critical to ensure the user experience does not become a barrier to receiving and responding to the intended message. The study reported in this paper seeks to help first-year psychology students to develop knowledge and confidence to recommend emotion regulation strategies. In previous work, we received negative feedback concerning the VA's lip-syncing, including creepiness and visual overload, in the case of stroke patients. We seek to test the impact of the removal of lip-syncing on the perception of the VA and its ability to achieve its intended outcomes, also considering the influence of the visual features of the avatar. We conducted a 2 (lip-sync/no lip-sync) x 2 (human-like/cartoon-like) experimental design and measured participants' perception of the VA in terms of eeriness, user experience, knowledge gain and participants' confidence to practice their knowledge. While participants showed a tendency to prefer the cartoon look over the human look and the absence of lip-syncing over its presence, all groups reported no significant increase in knowledge but significant increases in confidence in their knowledge and ability to recommend the learnt strategies to others, concluding that realism and lip-syncing did not influence the intended outcomes. Thus, in future designs, we will allow the user to switch off the lip-sync function if they prefer. Further, our findings suggest that lip-syncing should not be a standard animation included with VAs, as is currently the case.

Background: Visual perception plays a role in balance control while performing a sit-to-stand movement (STS). The dynamic virtual environment could reduce effective neuromuscular regulation and instability. Nevertheless, virtual reality (VR) on the STS movement was not explored in any research. Objectives: This study's aim was to investigate the effect of the VR of an optokinetic drum on the STS movement by using optokinetic drum VR scenes. Methods: This study used a repeated measurement research design. Ninety healthy subjects aged 18-23 years with no experience in virtual reality were recruited. Each participant was asked to stand as quickly as possible from a height-adjustable chair three times under five conditions: with eyes-open (EO), eyes-closed (EC), and three VR scenes: a limited field view of an optokinetic scene, a black and white striped scene, moving in horizontal direction (VRhori), vertical direction (VRvert), and roll (VRroll). VR scenes were generated using a mobile phone in a head-mounted display. The rising index (the upward force produced by the legs as a proportion of body weight), sway velocity, and weight transfer time were measured using a NeuroCom Balance Master. Results: Only VRvert condition significantly reduced weight transfer time as compared to EO and the other two VR conditions. All three VR scenes significantly reduced the rising index as compared to EO. VRvert condition significantly increased sway velocity as compared to all conditions. Conclusion: These findings suggest that optokinetic environment scenes in virtual reality could be used as an alternative method to increase the challenge of maintaining the balance during STS.

Most prosthetic hand users are limited to visual feedback of movement performance. To characterize the benefit of vibrotactile feedback for a task that lacks haptic feedback, a virtual environment was used to experimentally manipulate visual, task-relevant haptic, and remote vibrotactile feedback on simple object manipulation for unimpaired subjects. The combination of visual and remote vibrotactile feedback was compared to visual feedback alone, and to simultaneous visual and direct haptic feedback to represent ideal performance. Visual and vibrotactile feedback resulted in improvement of most performance variables including difficulty ratings relative to visual feedback alone. However addition of sensory cues to visual feedback increased trial times and the increase was steeper for vibrotactile than for haptic feedback. Specifically, during vibrotactile feedback the velocity did not change, but the duration of execution increased due to improved performance, resulting in increased trial times. This result suggests future exploration of performance improvement and execution speed for augmented sensory feedback.

Recent embodied cognition studies revealed that our mind can be influenced by the state and recognition of our bodies. Meanwhile, recent developments in virtual reality and augmented human technologies enable us to flexibly modify and extend our body itself and recognition of our bodily states. Considering these together, our mind would be designed by utilizing these technologies which augment our body or body perception. In other words, we can design ourselves through the design of the virtual body and embodied interaction we use in cyber-physical world to become the person we want to be. Here, in reference to the fact that the relationship between the body and the mind has been discussed in many works including M. Shirow's "GHOST IN THE SHELL" since the presentation of G. Ryle's concept of "Ghost in the machine," the function of the human mind that arises from the body is defined as "ghost", and the technology to create the desired change in our mind by changing our virtual body is called as "Ghost Engineering". There are several patterns in the way our body is made possible by technology for the first time, and what kind of mind function changes depends on these patterns. For example, "Transformation", the experience of becoming someone else, or being able to demonstrate abilities beyond one's own, can change one's self-image and influence behavior, abilities, and even thinking. The "Body multiplexing" experience of manipulating multiple bodies not only expands our physical abilities, but also affects our ability to balance our thoughts and changes the way we communicate with multiple people. Merged body, in which multiple people manipulate a single body, not only enables a new kind of cooperative work, but also enables the transfer of motor intentions and physical skills from human to human. I would like to introduce recent achievements and future implications of Ghost Engineering technology, and discuss what kind of possibilities for the self and society that such technology enables.

Recent advances in virtual reality (VR) technologies accelerate the creation of a flawless 3D virtual world to provide frontier social platform for human. Equally important to traditional visual, auditory and tactile sensations, olfaction exerts both physiological and psychological influences on humans. Here, we report a concept of skin-interfaced olfactory feedback systems with wirelessly, programmable capabilities based on arrays of flexible and miniaturized odor generators (OGs) for olfactory VR applications. By optimizing the materials selection, design layout, and power management, the OGs exhibit outstanding device performance in various aspects, from response rate, to odor concentration control, to long-term continuous operation, to high mechanical/electrical stability and to low power consumption. Representative demonstrations in 4D movie watching, smell message delivery, medical treatment, human emotion control and VR/AR based online teaching prove the great potential of the soft olfaction interface in various practical applications, including entertainment, education, human machine interfaces and so on. Virtual reality technologies need olfactory systems to improve human perception, but their bulky formats limit their practicality. Here, Liu et. al. report flexible and miniaturized odor generators with tunable odor concentration in close user proximity for immersive virtual reality applications.

One of the recent research topics in the area of design and virtual prototyping is offering designers tools for creating and modifying shapes in a natural and interactive way. Multimodal interaction is part of this research. It allows conveying to the users information through different sensory channels. The use of more modalities than touch and vision augments the sense of presence in the virtual environment and can be useful to present the same information in various ways. In addition, multimodal interaction can sometimes be used to augment the perception of the user by transferring information that is not generally perceived in the real world, but which can be emulated by the virtual environment. The paper presents a prototype of a system that allows designers to evaluate the quality of a shape with the aid of touch, vision and sound. Sound is used to communicate geometrical data, relating to the virtual object, which are practically undetectable through touch and vision. In addition, the paper presents the preliminary work carried out on this prototype and the results of the first tests made in order to demonstrate the feasibility The problems related to the development of this kind of application and the realization of the prototype itself are highlighted This paper also focuses on the potentialities and the problems relating to the use of multimodal interaction, in particular the auditory channel.

Taking into account the challenges of professional training for Industry 4.0 and the new student profile, we conceived an educational alternative adapted from design thinking that uses active learning methodologies and digital technologies like virtual reality, augmented reality, etc. This new alternative is called Situa & ccedil;& atilde;o Interativa de Aprendizagem - SIA, which translates to Interactive Learning Situation. We use technology acceptance models as a way to predict teachers' willingness to adopt the proposed technologies. The results of this stage will guide the training program. We adopted a model based on the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT), extended with the constructivist teaching belief (CTB). We found that there is a positive perception of performance gains for teachers (performance expectancy) and the impact of external influences for intention of use (social influence). However, there are different opinions regarding the other factors, such as teacher receptivity and qualifications (effort expectancy), educational beliefs (CTB), ease of implementation (facilitating conditos), and the influence of age moderator.

One of the ergonomic issues of wearing see-though displays is binocular rivalry, which is one of visual perception phenomena. Binocular rivalry happens when different images are rendered to each eye. In this paper, we introduce the potential of making use of binocular rivalry rather than mitigating it when a stereo see-through HMD is worn. We designed experiments where major contents were presented on the dominant eyes and minor contents (e.g., menus) were displayed on the non-dominant eyes. According to preliminary tests, presenting different contents on dominant and non-dominant eyes is feasible if both contents do not overlap, or only one of them is bright. Switching brightness was also helpful in attaining user's attention. By presenting different contents on dominant and non-dominant eyes, users could also observe the real environments more conveniently than presenting a single content on both eyes.

We are interested in the way players identify with their virtual characters, and how this identification could be exploited to augment players' cognitive abilities. Our approach is based on the cognitive neuroscience theory of common coding and related experiments, that suggest that perception, imagination and execution of movement are linked by a common representation in the brain. We report three experiments that examine players' identification with the avatar and one effect of this identification on the player's cognitive abilities. The first experiment laid the foundation for the design and development of a full-body puppet interface for transferring a player's own movements to a virtual avatar. Subsequent experiments used the puppet to investigate: (1) whether players recognised their own movements in a virtual avatar and (2) whether this self-recognition improved the player's ability to perform mental rotations. Our results show that the puppet interface is effective in personalising an avatar, and it can augment players' cognitive abilities. Z8 0

Existing approaches of tele-operation of underwater robots using video camera are very inefficient due to poor visibility around worksite and Limited camera viewfiled. This paper describes a research work which attempts to overcome the problem by introducing virtual telepresence operation approach. This virtual telepresence interface takes robot's position and orientation data from a sonar navigation system, and generates 3D synthetic images of the worksite based on its CAD model using virtual reality technology. It provides the robot operators with a full perception of its spatial location, flexible options of viewpoints and functions for tele-operation of underwater robots. The interface can also be used for training of the robot operators. The main conclusion is that virtual telepresence incoporated with robot safely domain concept not only can improve the efficiency of operation of underwater robots, but also forms the basis for supervisory control and fully automated control of the robots.

We present a novel approach to the inclusion of online services within a physical retailing scenario through the use of augmented reality (AR) technology and head-mounted displays (HMD). A concept has been designed for providing the innovative combination of product data, comparison support and product recommendations, all directly accessible from the pertinent physical products. Prototypes were implemented and evaluated in several user studies to address questions related to information acquisition, product exploration and user acceptance, including a comparison against a baseline system (i.e., smartphone app without AR capabilities). The results indicate that providing in-store functions via AR HMDs can be on par with a non-AR smartphone approach in terms of practicality, and may provide superior benefits concerning the discovery and exploration of products, and the perception of their differences. However, effort must be dedicated to design AR UIs able to compete against the clearer and more structured information visualization of traditional displays.

Comparing human performance in a virtual environment (VE) with performance in the real world can provide clues about which aspects of VE technology require improvement. Using a technique previously shown to measure real-world distance judgments accurately we compared performance in a real-world environment with performance in a virtual model of that environment. The technique required participants to walk without vision to a target after viewing it for 10 s. VE distance judgments averaged 85% of the target distance, whereas real-world judgments averaged 92%. The magnitude of the relative errors in the VE was twice that in the real world, indicating that the VE degraded distance judgments. Our analysis suggests that VE performance deficits result either from poor binocular disparity cues or from distortion of pictorial depth cues. Actual or potential applications of this research include the development of virtual environments for training and the design of visual displays for virtual simulations.

Most countries have active road safety policies that seek the objective of reducing deaths in traffic accidents. One of the main factors in this regard is the awareness of the safety measures, one of the most important being the correct usage of the seat belt, a device that is known to save thousands of lives every year. The presented work shows a VR-enhanced edutainment application designed to increase awareness on the use of seat belts. For this goal, a motorized rollover system was developed that, synchronized with a VR application (shown in a head-mounted display for each user inside a real car), rolls over this car with up to four passengers inside. This way, users feel the sensations of a real overturn and therefore they realize the consequences and the results of not wearing a seat belt. The system was tested for a month in the context of a road safety exhibition in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, one of the leading countries in car accidents per capita. More than 500 users tested and assessed the usefulness of the system. We measured, before and after the rollover experience, the perception of risk of not using the seat belt. Results show that awareness regarding the use of seat belts increases very significantly after using the presented edutainment tool.

The adoption of Digital Twin (DT) solutions for industrial purposes is increasing among small- and medium-sized enterprises and is already being integrated into many large-scale companies. As there is an increasing need for faster production and shortening of the learning curve for new emerging technologies, Virtual Reality (VR) interfaces for enterprise manufacturing DTs seem to be a good solution. Furthermore, with the emergence of Industry 5.0 (I5.0) paradigm, human operators will be increasingly integrated in the systems interfaces though advanced interactions, pervasive sensors, real time tracking and data acquisition. This scenario is especially relevant in collaborative automated systems where the introduction of immersive VR interfaces based on production cell DTs might provide a solution for the integration of the human factors in the modern industrial scenarios. This study presents experimental results of the comparison between users controlling a physical industrial robot system via a traditional teach pendant and a DT leveraging a VR user interface. The study group involves forty subjects including experts in robotics and VR as well as non-experts. An analysis of the data gathered in both the real and the virtual use case scenario is provided. The collected information includes time for performing a task with an industrial robot, stress level evaluation, physical and mental effort, and the human subjects' perceptions of the physical and simulated robots. Additionally, operator gazes were tracked in the VR environment. In this study, VR interfaces in the DT representation are exploited to gather user centered metrics and validate efficiency and safety standards for modern collaborative industrial systems in I5.0. The goal is to evaluate how the operators perceive and respond to the virtual robot and user interface while interacting with them and detect if any degradation of user experience and task efficiency exists compared to the real robot interfaces. Results demonstrate that the use of DT VR interfaces is comparable to traditional tech pendants for the given task and might be a valuable substitute of physical interfaces. Despite improving the overall task performance and considering the higher stress levels detected while using the DT VR interface, further studies are necessary to provide a clearer validation of both interfaces and user impact assessment methods.

Virtual Learning Environments (VLEs) are becoming commonplace in Higher Education. Amongst the latest VLE developments is the design and use of Virtual Microscopes (VMs) that allow for viewing and manipulation of online images by multiple students. Although students are found to be generally satisfied with the use of VMs, it is yet not known what teaching and learning conditions better support their use and lead to enhanced learning outcomes. The aim of this paper is to compare the usage patterns and perceptions of two different cohorts of undergraduate students that made use of the VM in blended and online only learning conditions respectively, and draw conclusions about the pedagogy that better supports teaching and learning with VMs. Data collected from a survey with 139 students and 11 semi-structured interviews revealed that blended learning better caters for students' engagement and satisfaction due to the systematic use of the VM in course design, its complementary use with a physical microscope, and the ongoing provision of tutors' support and guidance. Equally good perceived learning gains were reported by both blended and online only students. Implications for the design of learning environments around virtual microscopy are discussed.

We developed a free form deformation application for an immersive environment in which users can interact freely using data gloves. To ensure better comfort and performances, we added the possibility of bi-manual interaction in our environment. To investigate the actual gain obtained by this interaction technique we designed an experimental protocol based on spatial input tasks. In our experiment, we asked our subjects to use only the dominant hand to achieve the different tasks or, on the contrary, to use both hands. Comparison of users' performances - i-e, time and precision - shows that, without proper training, executing a task using two hands can be more time consuming than using one hand. In fact, the degree of symmetry of the tasks performed with each hand seem to have a significant impact on whether or not users take advantage of bi-manual possibilities. Our results also show that bi-manual interaction can introduce proprioceptive cues that can be of help to achieve more precision in the placement or selection only when proper visual information are missing. In this study, we also wanted to investigate if bi-manual interaction can help users in their perception of the task. Even if there aren't statistically significant, our results shows that using symmetric bi-manual interaction, proprioception cues can improve user's perception.

We are investigating face, hand and body expressions to be applied to avatars of a virtual environment to improve their communication capabilities and enrich and facilitate their perception by users of the environment. We report on our work based on obtaining inspiration from the world of theatre. In this perspective Commedia dell'Arte and Noh theatre have been the focus of our attention. We explore key features of Commedia dell'Arte, namely improvisation, exaggerated gestures and expressive postures, and investigate how their adoption in the design of avatars can be useful for collaborative virtual environments. With the same objectives we look at another theatre style, the Noh theatre. We investigate the variety of masks and the choreography. The outcome is a visual language for avatars made up of postures, gestures and appearances. We have concluded this investigation with the production of an experimental theatre play involving real and virtual actors.

This study aims to understand the usability of common button colours and background choices in the existing augmented reality (AR) interface. AR is increasingly used in dynamic situations, such as driving using an AR head-up display. However, studies regarding the usability of AR interfaces, especially about the colours, are scarce. Twenty-four participants performed button selection tasks in an experiment using Microsoft HoloLens. Three measures (task completion time, the number of errors, and button colour visibility were collected for the 12 experimental conditions (3 backgrounds by 4 button colours). Significant differences were found in completion time between backgrounds and blue button visibility. On a moving background, the most effective button colour is orange, and the most minor effective button colour is blue. The results of this study can be used for colour choices in designing AR applications and devices.

The intuitive and effective haptic feedback interaction is essential for human-machine interfaces. However, most current commercial haptic feedback solutions are rigid, simplex, and insufficient to fully immerse users in virtual and teleoperated environments. Here, we report the design, fabrication and per-formance of a low-cost and lightweight self-sensing actuator (SenAct) that provides accurate force and vibration feedback to recreate the tactile perception. The SenAct shows good performance such as fast response (10 ms), high robustness (>10,000 cycles), and large output force (up to 1.55 N) with high con-trollable resolution (up to 0.02 N) based on the real-time closed-loop control. It is capable of providing the corresponding haptic feedback to the wearer through external force or vibration signal input. With this prototype, we presented a haptic feedback glove that supports precise operation by enhancing immersion and comprehensive sensation. Furthermore, we demonstrated it could shape appropriate interaction in different scenarios, including touching or grasping objects in virtual reality and teleopera-tion, illustrating its potential applications in human-in-loop interaction system and metaverse. CO 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

This work presents a novel framework for web-based environment-aware rendering and interaction in augmented reality based on WebXR and three.js. It aims at accelerating the development of device-agnostic Augmented Reality (AR) applications. The solution allows for a realistic rendering of 3D elements, handles geometry occlusion, casts shadows of virtual objects onto real surfaces, and provides physics interaction with real-world objects. Unlike most existing state-of-the-art systems that are built to run on a specific hardware configuration, the proposed solution targets the web environment and is designed to work on a vast range of devices and configurations. Our solution can use monocular camera setups with depth data estimated by deep neural networks or, when available, use higher-quality depth sensors (e.g., LIDAR, structured light) that provide a more accurate perception of the environment. To ensure consistency in the rendering of the virtual scene a physically based rendering pipeline is used, in which physically correct attributes are associated with each 3D object, which, combined with lighting information captured by the device, enables the rendering of AR content matching the environment illumination. All these concepts are integrated and optimized into a pipeline capable of providing a fluid user experience even on middle-range devices. The solution is distributed as an open-source library that can be integrated into existing and new web-based AR projects. The proposed framework was evaluated and compared in terms of performance and visual features with two state-of-the-art alternatives.

Online secondhand resale platforms are a booming industry involving the growing recognition of various economic, environmental, and recreational benefits in buying and selling used items. This preliminary study explores technology-based strategies for online secondhand platforms, which contributed to the resale industry's steady growth and digital transformation. Through a variety of literature, this study established a basis for developing research on technological innovations in online resale platforms. A mixed method was used to collect both quantitative and qualitative data to investigate and understand the features of resale e-commerce. Case studies of four online secondhand resale platforms specializing in general goods and fashion helped identify a variety of technological strategies that were later analyzed based on the technology acceptance model (TAM). Survey data from respondents in their twenties and thirties living in South Korea indicated features that promote safe transactions, engaging user experience and user interface design, and individual compatibility as most effective in influencing users' resale platform usage. Features that involve high technology, such as virtual reality and machine learning, had the least impact on users' usage. Data gathered from follow-up interviews showing the recurring theme of unfamiliarity with the technological features corroborated the survey findings. Analyzing qualitative data from expert interviews generated key concepts in future trends in online resale platform strategies, including effective data management. Based on this study's findings, the digitalization and onlineization of the online secondhand resale industry are likely to continue with the implementation of various strategies that contribute to users' perceptions of usefulness, ease-of-use, and enjoyment, increasing users' satisfaction and, hence, the actual usage of these platforms. The proliferation of secondary e-commerce will facilitate a shared culture that values sustainable consumption in online platforms and promote sustainability in the retail industry.

This article investigates the relationship between fine motor skill training in VR, haptic feedback, and physiological arousal. To do so, we present the design and development of a motor skill task (buzzwire), along with a custom vibrotactile feedback attachment for the Geomagic Touch haptic device. A controlled experiment following a between-subjects design was conducted with 73 participants, studying the role of three feedback conditions - visual/kinesthetic, visual/vibrotactile and visual only - on the learning and performance of the considered task and the arousal levels of the participants. Results indicate that performance improved in all three feedback conditions after the considered training session. However, participants reported no change in self-efficacy and in terms of presence and task load (NASA-TLX). All three feedback conditions also showed similar arousal levels. Further analysis revealed that positive changes in performance were linked to higher arousal levels. These results suggest the potential of haptic feedback to affect arousal levels and encourage further research into using this relationship to improve motor skill training in VR.

Objective: The purpose of this study was to examine the factors impacting seating choices of care partners while conducting common tasks in an outpatient surgical center waiting room. Background: Waiting rooms in healthcare environments have been previously studied to understand how factors such as aesthetics, privacy, comfort, and positive distractions impact user perception of quality of care. Although care partners of patients often spend long hours in the surgical waiting rooms, no studies have addressed users' seat type and location preferences in waiting areas. Methods: In this study, 92 participants made seat selections while performing scenario-based tasks in a virtual waiting area. A mixed-methods approach including a survey and semi-structured interviews was utilized to capture participants' feedback on how certain factors (e.g., visibility, accessibility, privacy, comfort, and aesthetic quality) impacted their choices. Results: The optimal seat location and type in the waiting area varied depending on the type of task care partners were engaged in. While being able to sit with their loved one was the most important factor influencing seat selection during patient check-in, seat location was the most important factor in all other scenarios. The importance of factors such as seat comfort, seat type, visual and auditory privacy, and visibility to registration area varied across scenarios. However, the visual appearance of the seating remained equally important across all scenarios. Conclusions: The use of different scenarios allowed users to identify their preferences regarding seating within the context of their specific needs at different points in the waiting process.

PurposeThis paper aims to explore digital fashion products in the metaverse platform contexts and empirically examine the effect of the metaverse platform characteristics on the purchase intention of digital fashion products through users' flow experience and perceived value of the products.Design/methodology/approachA survey method was used in this study. Answers from 314 metaverse users were analyzed, and the hypotheses were tested using the structural equations modeling and bootstrapping analysis.FindingsThe analyses showed that telepresence, social interaction and economic flow had significant effects on users' flow experience among the metaverse platform characteristics, while the continuity and content creation of the metaverse platform did not have significant effects. The flow experience also appeared to have significant effects on multiple consumption values, including pleasure value, self-expression value and economic value. Last, the perceived pleasure value and economic value of digital fashion products had a positive effect on purchase intention.Originality/valueThe main contribution of this research is that it is one of the first empirical attempts to investigate individual consumers' perceptions and experiences of digital fashion products in the context of metaverse platforms. Z8 0

Arthroscopy has already become an irreplacable method in diagnostics. The arthroscope, with optics and light source, and the exploratory probe are inserted into the knee joint through two small incisions underneath the patella. Currently, the skills required for arthroscopy are taught through hands-on clinical experience. As arthroscopies became a more common procedure even in smaller hospitals, it became obvious that special training was necessary to guarantee qualification of the surgeons. On-the-job training proved to be insufficient. Therefore, research groups from the Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik Frankfurt am Main approached the Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics to develop a training system for arthroscopy based on virtual reality (VR) techniques. Two main issues are addressed: the three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction process and the 3-D interaction. To provide the virtual environment, a realistic representation of the region of interest with all relevant anatomical structures is required. Based on a magnetic resonance image sequence a realistic representation of the knee joint was obtained suitable for computer simulation. Two main components of the VR interface can be distinguished: the 3-D interaction to guide the surgical instruments and the 2-D graphical user interface for visual feedback and control of the session. Moreover, the 3-D interaction has to be realized by means of Virtual Reality techniques providing a simulation of an arthroscope and an intuitive handling of other surgical instruments. Currently, the main drawback of the developed simulator is the missing of haptic perception, especially of force feedback. In cooperation with the Department of Electro-Mechanical Construction at the Technical University Darmstadt a haptic display is designed and built for the VR arthroscopy training simulator. In parallel we developed a concept for the integration of the haptic display in a configurable way.

Haptic feedback usually involves two types of stimulation forces: forces that address the touch sense and forces that address the kinesthetic perception. Touch forces have a low intensity and a complex structure since they reflect contact phenomena where friction plays an important role. Therefore, they are quite difficult to simulate. Virtual prototyping with haptic feedback should ideally involve both types of forces, but the integration of the touch feeling makes the simulator very complex. In this paper, we present a novel concept for virtual prototyping in which the touch interaction is separated from the kinesthetic force feedback. This is possible using a prototype that has a real part undertaking the touch interaction and a virtual part that simulate feedback for the kinesthetic forces. In this way, a full haptic interaction with the virtual prototype is established by means of a device that provides a realistic simulation of the product. In order to illustrate the concept, several experiments have been carried out for the case of specific subsystems of a car, which are particularly involved in the driver-car interaction: steering system, clutch pedal and the gearshift. A user test is described in the last part as well as the conclusions of the research.

Improvements in the performance and graphical quality of Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs) have led to their increasing use in Virtual Reality (VR) for product presentation and virtual prototype (VP) evaluations. Various locomotion techniques in VR make it possible to move through a virtual scenario and approach the VP for evaluation purposes. The integration of eye-tracking devices into recent HMDs allows the trajectory and gaze behavior of observers to be reported during the evaluation, often more objectively than self-report questionnaires. However, very few studies have used physiological measures for the evaluation of products embedded in VR environments. Therefore, this paper offers a study in which 95 people evaluated three VPs of street furniture presented in their environment of use using Meta Quest Pro headset and explored through teleport and natural walking. The influence of the locomotion techniques on the ratings recorded using a semantic differential, sense of presence, cybersickness, and the role of eye-tracking in understanding gaze behavior while evaluating products' Areas of Interest (AOIs), are investigated. This study found no evidence that the way of approaching the product influences the evaluation of some of its features, overall product evaluation, confidence in responses, sense of presence, or cybersickness differently. On the other hand, this work evidences that the locomotion technique had an impact on how the user approached the products, which could significantly influence the viewing time of some AOIs. The study revealed that the most observed AOIs coincided with those parts closely related to important features, generally located at the top of the products, so paying special attention to these parts when designing and evaluating similar VPs is recommended.

Ultrasound mid-air haptic (UMH) devices can remotely render vibrotactile shapes on the skin of unequipped users, e.g., to draw haptic icons or render virtual object shapes. Spatio-temporal modulation (STM), the state-of-the-art UMH shape-rendering method, provides large freedom in shape design and produces the strongest possible stimuli for this technology. Yet, STM shapes are often reported to be blurry, complicating shape identification. Dynamic tactile pointers (DTP) were recently introduced as a technique to overcome this issue. By tracing a contour with an amplitude-modulated focal point, they significantly improve shape identification accuracy over STM, but at the cost of much lower stimulus intensity. Building upon this, we propose spatio-temporally-modulated Tactile Pointers (STP), a novel method for rendering clearer and sharper UMH shapes while at the same time producing strong vibrotactile sensations. We ran two human participant experiments, which show that STP shapes are perceived as significantly stronger than DTP shapes, while shape identification accuracy is significantly improved over STM and on par with that obtained with DTP. Our work has implications for effective shape rendering with UMH and provides insights that could inform future psychophysical investigation into vibrotactile shape perception in UMH.

The present study evaluated whether virtual reality (VR) can enhance the realism of role plays designed to help college women resist sexual attacks. Sixty-two female undergraduate students were randomly assigned to either the Role Play (RP) or Virtual Role Play (VRP) conditions, which were differentiated only by the use of VR technology in the VRP condition. A multimethod assessment strategy was used to evaluate the effects of VR on the experienced realism of sexually threatening role plays. Realism was assessed by participant self-reports of negative affect and perceptions of realism, direct observation of participants' verbal displays of negative affect during the role plays, and measurements of participant heart rate during the role plays. Results indicated that VR can indeed heighten the realism of sexually threatening role plays. Discussion focuses on issues regarding the use of VR-enhanced role plays for helping college women resist sexual attacks.

A head-mounted display cannot cover an angle of visual field as wide as that of natural view (out-of-view problem). To enhance the visual cognition of an immersive environment, previous studies have developed various guidance designs that visualize the location or direction of items presented in the users' surroundings. However, two issues regarding the guidance effects remain unresolved: How are the guidance effects different with each guided direction? How much is the cognitive load required by the guidance? To investigate the two issues, we performed a visual search task in an immersive environment and measured the search time of a target and time spent to recognize a guidance design. In this task, participants searched for a target presented on a head-mounted display and reported the target color while using a guidance design. The guidance designs (a moving window, 3D arrow, radiation, spherical gradation, and 3D radar) and target directions were manipulated. The search times showed an interaction effect between guidance designs and guided directions, e.g., the 3D arrow and radar shorten the search time for targets presented at the back of users. The recognition times showed that the participants required short times to recognize the details of the moving window and radiation but long times for the 3D arrow, spherical gradation, and 3D radar. These results suggest that the moving window and radiation are effective with respect to cognitive load, but the 3D arrow and radar are effective for guiding users' attention to necessary items presented at the out-of-view. Z8 2

Searching for objects is a common task in daily life and work. For augmented reality (AR) devices without spatial perception systems, the image of the object's last appearance serves as a common search assistance. Compared to using only images as visual cues, videos capturing the process of object placement can provide procedural guidance, potentially enhancing users' search efficiency. However, complete video playback capturing the entire object placement process as visual cues can be excessively lengthy, requiring users to invest significant viewing time. To explore whether segmented or accelerated video playback can still assist users in object retrieval tasks effectively, we conducted a user study. The results indicated that when video playback is covering the first appearance of the object's destination to the object's final appearance (referred to as the destination appearance, DA) and playing at normal speed, search time and cognitive load were significantly reduced. Subsequently, we designed a second user study to evaluate the performance of video playback compared to image cues in object retrieval tasks. The results showed that combining the DA playback starting point with images of the object's last appearance further reduced search time and cognitive load.

This article presents a detailed design, development, and implementation of a Mixed Reality Art-Science collaboration project which was exhibited during Darwin's bicentenary exhibition at Shrewsbury, England. As an artist-led project the concerns of the artist were paramount, and this article presents Shift-Life as part of an ongoing exploration into the parallels between the nonlinear human thinking process and computation using semantic association to link items into ideas, and ideas into holistic concepts. Our art explores perceptions and states of mind as we move our attention between the simulated world of the computer and the real world we inhabit, which means that any viewer engagement is participatory rather than passive. From a Mixed Reality point of view, the lead author intends to explore the convergence of the physical and virtual, therefore the formalization of the Mixed Reality system, focusing on the integration of artificial life, ecology, physical sensors, and participant interaction through an interface of physical props. It is common for digital media artists to allow viewers to activate a work either through a computer screen via direct keyboard or mouse manipulation, or through immersive means. For Shift-Life the artist was concerned with a direct relational approach where viewers would intuitively engage with the installation's everyday objects, and with each other, to fully experience the piece. The Mixed Reality system is mediated via physical environmental sensors, which affect the virtual environment and autonomous agents, which in turn reacts and is expressed as virtual pixels projected onto a physical surface. The tangible hands-on interface proved to be instinctive, attractive, and informative on many levels, delivering a good example of collaboration between the arts and science.

Egocentric distances in virtual environments are commonly underperceived by up to 50 % of the intended distance. However, a brief period of interaction in which participants walk through the virtual environment while receiving visual feedback can dramatically improve distance judgments. Two experiments were designed to explore whether the increase in postinteraction distance judgments is due to perception-action recalibration or the rescaling of perceived space. Perception-action recalibration as a result of walking interaction should only affect action-specific distance judgments, whereas rescaling of perceived space should affect all distance judgments based on the rescaled percept. Participants made blind-walking distance judgments and verbal size judgments in response to objects in a virtual environment before and after interacting with the environment through either walking (Experiment 1) or reaching (Experiment 2). Size judgments were used to infer perceived distance under the assumption of size-distance invariance, and these served as an implicit measure of perceived distance. Preinteraction walking and size-based distance judgments indicated an underperception of egocentric distance, whereas postinteraction walking and size-based distance judgments both increased as a result of the walking interaction, indicating that walking through the virtual environment with continuous visual feedback caused rescaling of the perceived space. However, interaction with the virtual environment through reaching had no effect on either type of distance judgment, indicating that physical translation through the virtual environment may be necessary for a rescaling of perceived space. Furthermore, the size-based distance and walking distance judgments were highly correlated, even across changes in perceived distance, providing support for the size-distance invariance hypothesis. Z8 0

Purpose As online travel marketing is evermore gaining importance, in particular regarding the pre-purchase presentation of travel destinations, it is imperative to examine how various media can engage consumers. The purpose of this paper is to identify how three prominent virtual representation media in tourism marketing differ regarding their potential in engaging customers. In particular, the authors examine whether they differ in the levels of interactivity, vividness and telepresence they elicit; and the impact of these dimensions on flow, enjoyment and online purchase intentions. The authors hereby focus specifically on millennials, who represent an important target market for the travel industry and are hard to reach via traditional media. Design/methodology/approach This study presents a between-subjects experimental design comparing three virtual representation media portraying New York City, namely, photographs, 360 degrees video and virtual reality (VR). The findings are analysed with ANCOVA analysis and PLS path modelling. Findings The findings reveal that various media indeed generate different levels of customer engagement. In particular, VR scores the highest on all dimensions, with interactivity having the largest effect on consumers' perception of telepresence. Such higher levels of telepresence in turn positively affect purchase intentions via mediation through flow and enjoyment. Originality/value This study identifies interactivity as the most important driver for consumers' perception of telepresence in the context of pre-travel tourism information. Moreover, the findings also reveal the mechanisms behind enhanced customer engagement via various media.

In virtual environments, tracking physical movements in the real world and mapping them to movement in a virtual world increases immersion and the experience of presence. For example, walking on a treadmill in the physical world may be mapped to camera movement in a first-person view of the virtual world. However, due to interrelated factors relating to the field of view and distortion of objects in the virtual environment, matching physical movement speed to virtual world movement speed world so that it 'feels right' to a user can be complex. This perceived mismatch is detrimental as it can induce motion sickness and reduce the experience of presence. Although previously investigated with head-mounted displays, there is little information about how to overcome this mismatch when using large 2D screens that provide a very different viewing environment. To address this gap, we investigate how a 180-degree display that nearly fills the entire human FOV impacts this perceptual mismatch while walking and running on a treadmill. Our results show that people prefer camera speeds that actually exceed their physical movement speed, and increasingly so at higher speeds. Interestingly, though, people's tolerance for deviations from the ideal camera speed mapping does not change with movement speed. We propose a simple personalized linear model that can be quickly calibrated for a user to provide the best match. This work provides important findings to inform and improve the design of virtual environments for an improved user experience.

Emerging augmented reality displays provide high fidelity overlays onto real-world environments to enable navigation efficiency. The accuracy of these systems, however, is highly contingent on monitoring and registering user orientations and landmark locations. No data exist, however, regarding ranges at which registration error reliably influences user behavior and trust. The present experiments examined the influence of directional error in a simulated navigation guidance system on path efficiency and user trust. In three experiments, participants (N=90) navigated an urban desktop virtual environment with the assistance of an overlaid beacon depicting the direction and distance of a target landmark. Directional error was introduced into the beacon across trials, manipulated in 15 degrees increments from 0 degrees to 60 degrees (Experiment 1), 5 degrees increments from 0 degrees to 20 degrees (Experiment 2), and 1 increments from 6 degrees to 10 degrees (Experiment 3). Users show tolerance for up to approximately 8 degrees angular direction error without significantly reducing path efficiency or user trust in system reliability. They also show reduced path efficiency emerging at lower angular errors (approximately 9 degrees) relative to influences on perceived trust (approximately 16-20 degrees). Results provide some basic heuristics for error tolerance, demonstrate important dissociations between the objective versus perceived impact of error in navigation displays, and contribute to theoretical positions regarding the optimization of global awareness and spatial knowledge acquisition. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

While the 3D graphics technique has found its place for the scientific visualization, especially for medical and biological applications, it has long been speculated that the 3D may not be so much effective as far as the conventional information visualization is concerned. We agree upon this view that the naive extension of the 2D visual forms to 3D is not a way to go. Instead, the computergenerated 3D virtual world will serve best when the virtual world is seamlessly integrated with the real 3D space. For an example, a physical automobile model surrounded with various kinds of virtual visual forms such as texts, images, sounds and 3D models will offer the user (or the audience) another level of appreciation and experience on the subject being presented. In this paper, we present our on-going developmental efforts toward the above framework which calls for the tight integration of the 3D visual forms and the 3D real space. The Spatial AR Hologram (SPAROGRAM) is capable of manifesting augmented three-dimensional information by making full use of the real 3D space that encompasses the surroundings of the real object comprehensively and simultaneously. To accomplish this, a multiple layer of stereoscopic images was implemented. Stereoscopic images enable spatial visualization using the physical and virtual third dimension. Furthermore, ensuring the continuity of the spatial experience, we made the use of spatial exploration with user interaction in real-time. We describe the whole process of system design and prototyping. Our initial investigation suggests that the newly conceived holographic display produce not only continuous 3D space perception, but also the better spatial awareness and realism. Furthermore, it is a promising way to present information in three-dimensional display and help the users understand information effectively and efficiently.

Purpose - Despite the perceived benefits of implementing virtual reality (VR) training in elite sport, arguably the most important element - the perceptions of practitioners - has been largely understudied. Therefore, the present study aims to explore practitioners' perceptions of VR training in elite football and baseball, with a focus on the important factors, obstacles, perceived knowledge and practical use of the technology. Design/methodology/approach - A quantitative approach measuring practitioner perceptions via an online questionnaire was adopted. Football respondents (n = 25) represented practitioners from major football leagues across the world, and baseball respondents (n = 15) represented practitioners from Major League Baseball. Findings - Both football and baseball respondents reported that the most important factor for implementation of VR training was improvement in on-field performance (technical and tactical); whilst cost was viewed as the biggest obstacle. Both football and baseball respondents also noted that the most likely group to receive VR training would be injured and rehabilitating athletes. Mann-Whitney U tests revealed that football respondents perceived coach (p = 0.02) and executive approval (p < 0.001) as significantly greater obstacles than baseball respondents. Originality/value - This research provides novel and invaluable information for stakeholders within VR regarding what the elite organisations of different sports perceive as the most important factors for implementation, as well as greatest obstacles preventing use. This information should guide future development and marketing of VR training systems in sport.

This study proposes a VR-based tool, named "Virtual City," to evaluate wayfinding abilities that are reported to decline with some cognition dysfunctions, such as dementia. This platform was designed according to cognition theories and took advantage of convenience of real-time recording by using VR techniques to make the evaluations less subjective and more accurate. Our previous study has shown the feasibility of using VR techniques to evaluate the sense of direction; we further use this newly developed tool to assess the effect of "screen type" and "reference landmark" on wayfinding performances. Experimental results show that subjects perform better with true-size 3D visual displays and reference landmarks, suggesting the factors that need to be considered for clinical application by using VR tools to detect cognition impairment in wayfinding.

This article concerns the benefits of presenting abstract data in 3D. Two experiments show that motion cues combined with stereo viewing can substantially increase the size of the graph that can be perceived. The first experiment was designed to provide quantitative measurements of how much more (or less) can be understood in 3D than in 2D. The 3D display used was configured so that the image on the monitor was coupled to the user's actual eye positions (and it was updated in real-time as the user moved) as well as being in stereo. Thus the effect was like a local ''virtual reality'' display located in the vicinity of the computer monitor. The results from this study show that head-coupled stereo viewing can increase the size of an abstract graph that can be understood by a factor of three; using stereo alone provided an increase by a factor of 1.6 and head coupling alone produced an increase by a factor of 2.2. The second experiment examined a variety of motion cues provided by head-coupled perspective (as in virtual reality displays), hand-guided motion and automatic rotation, respectively, both with and without stereo in each case. The results show that structured 3D motion and stereo viewing both help in understanding, but that the kind of motion is not particularly important; all improve performance, and all are more significant than stereo cues. These results provide strong reasons for using advanced 3D graphics for interacting with a large variety of information structures.

Endoscopy has recently been introduced to endonasal transsphenoidal pituitary surgery as a minimally invasive procedure for the removal of various kinds of pituitary tumors. To reduce morbidity and mortality with this new technique, the surgeon must be well-trained and well-prepared. Virtual endoscopy can be beneficial as a tool for training, preoperative planning, and intraoperative support. This paper introduces STEPS, a virtual endoscopy system designed to aid surgeons in getting acquainted with the endoscopic view of the anatomy, the handling of instruments, the transsphenoidal approach, and challenges associated with the procedure. STEPS also assists experienced surgeons in planning a real endoscopic intervention by getting familiar with the individual patient anatomy, identifying landmarks, planning the approach, and deciding upon the ideal target position of the actual surgical activity. The application provides interactive visualization, navigation, and perception aids and the possibility of simulating the procedure, including haptic feedback and simulation of surgical instruments.

The physical support of touch interaction for a 2D interface when wearing a fully immersive head-mounted display (HMD), e.g., by using the kitchen table in a home environment, improves the user's quality of interaction. To define interface parameters - button size, adaption over time-we conducted a user study. In two experiments with 30 participants in total, we compared the ability of the HMD user's pointing to targets on a 2D surface without visual feedback, with visual feedback of the touched position and a real-world baseline. As a result, we give estimates for button dimensions, interaction design based on the learning curve of the user and present insights on the tested feedback modalities. We show that providing no feedback has limitations, presenting the touched position helps to increase accuracy and a head-mounted finger tracker has advantages but also comes with restrictions.<bold> </bold>

Virtual Reality/360 degrees videos provide an immersive experience to users. Besides this, 360 degrees videos may lead to an undesirable effect when consumed with Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs), referred to as simulator sickness/cybersickness. The Simulator Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ) is the most widely used questionnaire for the assessment of simulator sickness. Since the SSQ with its 16 questions was not designed for 360 degrees video related studies, our research hypothesis in this paper was that it may be simplified to enable more efficient testing for 360 degrees video. Hence, we evaluate the SSQ to reduce the number of questions asked from subjects, based on six different previously conducted studies. We derive the reduced set of questions from the SSQ using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) for each test. Pearson Correlation is analysed to compare the relation of all obtained reduced questionnaires as well as two further variants of SSQ reported in the literature, namely Virtual Reality Sickness Questionnaire (VRSQ) and Cybersickness Questionnaire (CSQ). Our analysis suggests that a reduced questionnaire with 9 out of 16 questions yields the best agreement with the initial SSQ, with less than 44% of the initial questions. Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) shows that the nine symptom-related attributes determined as relevant by PCA also appear to be sufficient to represent the three dimensions resulting from EFA, namely, Uneasiness, Visual Discomfort and Loss of Balance. The simplified version of the SSQ has the potential to be more efficiently used than the initial SSQ for 360 degrees video by focusing on the questions that are most relevant for individuals, shortening the required testing time.

A major challenge in haptic engineering has been to design practical methods to efficiently stimulate distributed areas of skin. Here, we show how to use a single actuator to generate vibrotactile stimuli which cause sensations of temporally varying spatial extent. Through optical vibrometry methods, we show that vibrational stimuli applied at the fingertip elicit waves in the finger that propagate proximally toward the hand and show how the frequency-dependent damping behavior of skin causes propagation distances to decrease rapidly with increasing frequency of stimulation. Utilizing these results, we design haptic stimuli applied through a single actuator that produces wavefields that expand or contract in size. In a perception experiment, participants accurately (median $>$95%) identified these stimuli as expanding or contracting without prior exposure or training. As a potential application, we used these effects as haptic cues for interactions in virtual reality. We show through a second experiment that the spatiotemporal haptic stimuli were rated as significantly more engaging than conventional vibrotactile stimuli. These findings demonstrate how the physics of waves in skin can be utilized to excite spatiotemporal tactile effects over large surface areas with a single actuator, and inform methods to utilize the effects in practical applications.

In our work, a virtual reality-based surgical simulator for the mandibular angle reduction was designed and implemented on CUDA-based platform. High-fidelity visual and haptic feedbacks between the surgical instruments and the bone material are provided to enhance the perception in a realistic virtual surgical environment. Impulse-based dynamics haptic model was employed to simulate the contact forces generated on the high-speed instruments, including the reciprocating saw and the round burr. The validity of the simulated contact forces was verified by comparing against the actual force data measured through the constructed mechanical platform. An empirical study based on the patient specified data was conducted to evaluate the ability of the proposed system in training surgeons with various experiences. The results confirm the validity of our simulator.

Objective Our study addresses the challenges limiting the adoption of Extended Reality (XR) Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs), mainly focusing on device quality and cybersickness. We aim to investigate the impact of hardware and software on user experience and task performance while wearing Video See-Through (VST) HMDs. We employ a novel methodology designed to bridge the gaps identified in previous research.Methods This study uses a convergent mixed-methods approach, combining qualitative and quantitative data in a within-subjects evaluation involving 20 participants. This comprehensive evaluation examines visual perception, visual quality, and user experience through a range of tasks. Usability, comfort, and cybersickness are assessed, with insights derived from both user performance metrics and subjective measures collected through in-depth interviews and comments. The study includes three distinct HMDs-two prototypes (PD1 and PD2) and one commercial device (CD1)-to provide a broad analysis of the technology.Findings Our findings reveal that while participants were generally satisfied with VST mode, their preferences varied across devices. CD1 was preferred for its realistic color representation and superior reading task performance due to its high-resolution display and camera. However, visual disturbances and temporal issues differed across devices, with CD1 exhibiting fewer artifacts when stationary but showing more disturbances when participants were moving. Participants found PD1 and PD2 more comfortable for extended use and fewer cybersickness symptoms, but they highlighted color and display resolution issues. These variations underscore the importance of considering both qualitative and quantitative measures in HMD evaluations.Conclusion This mixed-methods evaluation emphasizes the limitations of relying solely on visual perception performance measures for VST HMDs. By integrating both quantitative and qualitative insights, we offer a more detailed evaluation framework to identify design flaws and user experience issues that quantitative metrics alone might miss. This methodology contributes to the field by illustrating how a mixed-methods approach provides a broader perspective on XR technology, guiding future improvements and enhancing VST adoption in future applications. Z8 0

Virtual Reality (VR) is a multi-sensory technology that stimulates learning and has the potential for pedagogical applications. While researchers in VR have demonstrated several applications to support understanding and learning in STEM education, the research regarding which features of VR leverage learning is in its infancy. The existing studies exploring how learners interact with VR are based on human observations or learners' perceptions. This paper describes a novel mechanism to capture learner's interaction behavior, in the context of a mobile-based static VR to learn the human circulatory system. The data capturing mechanism is based on screen recordings of VR interaction, which is further annotated manually to form a time-sequenced action series. In a preliminary test conducted with three learners, the interaction data was analyzed based on the time spent in each action in the VR environment, frequently co-occurring actions, and sequence of actions. The test results are described and the implications of using such a mechanism to capture learners' interaction behavior is discussed. We conclude that capturing data in this manner gives a rich and detailed profile of learners and enables use of various analytics methods to provide personalized and adaptive support to learners. Z8 0

Background: Virtual simulation systems are being increasingly used in the field of nursing education. However, these systems are mostly designed based on the perspective of developers, and the needs of the end users are often neglected. The purpose of this study was to explore the perceptions and needs of Chinese undergraduate nursing students for the development of a community nursing virtual simulation system. Methods: This was a descriptive qualitative study enrolling 12 undergraduate nursing students at a University in China. Data were collected through semi-structured interviews. The content analysis method was used for data analysis. Result: Three themes and 15 sub-themes were extracted from this study: (1) Positive perceptions regarding virtual systems: a) Provides space for trials and errors, b) Not limited by time and space, c) Provides auxiliary tools; (2) Design and use requirements: a) Performance needs, b) Contents design needs, c) Appearance design needs, d) Support Needs; (3) Competency enhancement needs: a) Community nursing practice ability, b) Critical thinking ability, c) Independent thinking ability, d) Ability to deal with emergencies, e)Teamwork skills, f) Self-efficacy, g) Resilience, h) Interpersonal communication skills. Conclusion: Designers and engineers should consider students' needs, aim to improve students' abilities, improve the diversity, the scientific and rigor of content, and enhance user immersion and interest. The system should be programmed to provide real-time feedback, timely technical and professional support, in order to optimize use experience of nursing students.

Background: Task-specific motor training and repetitive practice are essential components of clinical rehabilitation. Emerging evidence suggests that incorporating gaming interfaces (also referred to as "exergames"), including virtual reality and augmented reality (VR/AR)-based interfaces for motor training, can enhance the engagement and efficacy of poststroke rehabilitation. Objective: To investigate perceptions of individuals with stroke regarding technology and exergames for rehabilitation. Design: This qualitative phenomenological study included a convenience sample of 11 individuals with stroke (61.7 +/- 12.4 years, 6 women and 5 men, 63.5 +/- 41.2 months post stroke). Setting: Community. Interventions: N/A. Outcome Measures: Semistructured open-ended focus-group interviews to understand their perceptions on technology and exergames to improve recovery were coded using thematic content analysis. Results: Individuals with stroke were comfortable using smartphones, computers, and rehabilitation technologies but had limited experiences using exergames and VR/AR devices. Individuals with stroke were motivated to use technologies and exergames to improve their functional recovery. Participants identified facilitators (eg, enhancing functional recovery, feedback, therapist supervision) and barriers (eg, safety, inaccessibility, inadequate knowledge) to adopting exergames in their daily lives. Participants wanted the exergames to be customizable, goal oriented, and enjoyable to maintain their engagement. They were willing to use exergames to improve their functional recovery but indicated that these games could not replace the therapist's supervision. Conclusions: Despite having limited experiences with exergames, people post stroke perceived that exergames could promote functional recovery. The perspectives gained from the present study can inform user-centered game design for neurorehabilitation.

As the aging population increases rapidly throughout the world, various approaches and studies are in progress to prevent age-related diseases. Among the diseases related to the elderly, dementia (in which cognitive function declines) is classified as a mental disorder. Since there is currently no therapeutic agent for dementia, early diagnosis and prophylactic approaches may be useful. In this study, a mobile-based augmented reality system for regular cognitive function training is proposed to minimize declines in cognitive function among the elderly. Using the characteristics of markerless augmented reality technology that can support physical activities, the foregoing system was developed in the form of a serious game based on an understanding of physical aging by the main users and inspired by existing psychological cognitive evaluation tools. The augmented reality system proposed in this study aims to induce the active participation of clients with goal setting and motivation using a gamified training system. In addition, it can ultimately be used as a self-assessment tool by recording an individual users' performance ability. This proposed system must be used after receiving proper guidance from psychologists. The game protocol was designed together with experts in clinical psychology: therapists as well as neuropsychological assessors who were experienced in carrying out cognitive training sessions. The experts said that the system could help improve cognitive functions, such as working memory, attention concentration, and visual perception memory. However, this system has some limitations. This system was verified once with a small number of experts and could not be introduced to an actual elderly group to undergo verification of effectiveness. To compensate, we will conduct experiments to verify the effectiveness in order to avoid placebo effects. The effectiveness of program implementation will be verified by digitizing the correlations between the results of the neuropsychological assessment in the form of paper and pens and the results of signal data. Z8 0

Augmented reality (AR) applications have opened innovative ways for performance improvement in the IoT industry. It can enhance user perception of the real-world by providing valuable information about an industrial environment and provide visual virtual information onto a head-mounted device (HMD). Such information is important for maintainers to quickly detect abnormalities, reduce nugatory routines and facilitate preventive maintenance activities. Since odors are made up of volatile compounds at low concentration, they can be used for olfactory-based identification. The article outlines the development of an olfactory-based AR system to help with the identification of maintenance issues using smell. The prototype comprises of three components: an electronic nose, a database and an AR application integrated with Microsoft HoloLens. After diagnosing an odor, the data is sent wirelessly through a local network to the HMD worn by the user. To validate the technology, four odors have been used, including engine oil, sun lotion, medical alcohol and perfume, to record behaviors and demonstrate the repeatability of the process. The presented technology incorporates sampling methods, cleaning processes and statistical analysis that can be further scrutinized to allow better smell augmentation for diagnosis.

Virtual Environments (VEs) have been used as mood induction procedures. In this context, it is necessary to have instruments to analyze the emotional state during VE exposure. Objective techniques such as EEG should be evaluated for this purpose. The aim in this work was to study the changes in the brain activity with a portable EEG device during a negative mood induction based on a VE. A virtual park was used to induce a negative mood (sadness) in ten participants. Changes in the brain activity of subjects were compared between two moments (before and after emotional induction). Obtained results were in accordance with previous scientific literature regarding frontal EEG asymmetry, which supports the possibility of using the portable EEG as a reliable instrument to measure emotions in VE. Z8 0

Medical doctors rely on images of the human anatomy, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to localize regions of interest in the patient during diagnosis and treatment. Despite advances in medical imaging technology, the information conveyance remains unimodal. This visual representation fails to capture the complexity of the real, multisensory interaction with human tissue. However, perceiving multimodal information about the patient's anatomy and disease in real-time is critical for the success of medical procedures and patient outcome. We introduce a Multimodal Medical Image Interaction (MMII) framework to allow medical experts a dynamic, audiovisual interaction with human tissue in three-dimensional space. In a virtual reality environment, the user receives physically informed audiovisual feedback to improve the spatial perception of anatomical structures. MMII uses a model-based sonification approach to generate sounds derived from the geometry and physical properties of tissue, thereby eliminating the need for hand-crafted sound design. Two user studies involving 34 general and nine clinical experts were conducted to evaluate the proposed interaction framework's learnability, usability, and accuracy. Our results showed excellent learnability of audiovisual correspondence as the rate of correct associations significantly improved (p < 0.001) over the course of the study. MMII resulted in superior brain tumor localization accuracy (p < 0.05) compared to conventional medical image interaction. Our findings substantiate the potential of this novel framework to enhance interaction with medical images, for example, during surgical procedures where immediate and precise feedback is needed.

The relationship framework between electroencephalogram (EEG) signals and subjective perception during pilots' missions was established to improve pilots' training efficiency and flight safety. Primarily, this study constructs a real flight scene through virtual reality (VR) and then obtains EEG data in simulated scenes. Researchers use VR technology to build a mission simulation room and then acquire EEG data from participants wearing EEG acquisition devices in the simulated room. The experimental process is divided into flight simulation and a questionnaire survey. Based on the participants' EEG analysis, the researchers verified the changes of beta rhythm under a high-difficulty operation mission. In addition, this study infers the mechanism of affecting pilots' mental workload under high-difficulty operation by analyzing the correlation between subjective questionnaire results and beta rhythms. The results showed that in the context of pilots performing flight missions in the aircraft space environment, the pilots' mental load had the most excellent rhythmic relationship with the regions representing beta rhythm. Therefore, a comprehensive experimental framework constructed in this study based on virtual simulation space to analyze the relationship between EEG and NASA-TLX subjective questionnaire provides a set of more accurate reference information for the design of a pilot training system based on pilot training efficiency and flight safety.

We present a novel approach to render thermal and tactile feedback to the palm and fingertips through thermal and tactile integration. Our approach minimizes the obstruction of the palm and inner side of the fingers and enables virtual object manipulation while providing localized and global thermal feedback. By leveraging thermal actuators positioned strategically on the outer palm and back of the fingers in interplay with tactile actuators, our approach exploits thermal referral and tactile masking phenomena. Through a series of user studies, we validate the perception of localized thermal sensations across the palm and fingers, showcasing the ability to generate diverse thermal patterns. Furthermore, we demonstrate the efficacy of our approach in VR applications, replicating diverse thermal interactions with virtual objects. This work represents significant progress in thermal interactions within VR, offering enhanced sensory immersion at an optimal energy cost.

This study proposed to investigate the thermal properties and subjective thermal discomfort of five virtual reality headsets, and their relationships. Twenty-seven university students used each of the five headsets for 45 min. Microclimate temperature and relative humidity were measured by miniature dataloggers. Infrared thermography was used to measure temperature distribution on the contact points between user's face and the headsets. Participants reported subjective thermal discomfort associated with using each headset. The average microclimate temperature and relative humidity increased by 7.8 degrees C and 3.5% respectively after headset use. Overall subjective thermal discomfort increased along with duration of use and came primarily from the display. Applying the linear mixed-effects model showed that subjective thermal discomfort is positively correlated with duration of use, microclimate temperature, relative humidity and display coverage area. Conversely, thermal discomfort is negatively correlated with total coverage area, with microclimate temperature acting as the most significant contributing factor. The headsets were ranked by pairing the objective measurements with subjective evaluations.

Successful navigation in a teleoperation scenario requires a good level of situational or environmental awareness. This paper presents the main features and capabilities of a new augmented virtuality-based system aimed at providing users with improved perception of the robot's remote environment. With this purpose, a mixed-perspective exocentric display (ME3D), and a video centric display (VC2D) are compared. Both interfaces were implemented on a mobile robot and experiments were performed in a real working scenario. To assess this contribution, this works analyzes the teleoperation capability, performance, and human workload of users by means of NASA-TLX (Task Load Index). The results show that participants experienced a reduction in the driving workload and showed high degrees of acceptance for the proposed ME3D interface.

Virtual Reality (VR) systems provide new modes of human computer interaction that can support several industrial design applications improving time savings, reducing prototyping costs, and supporting the identification of design errors before production. Enhancing the interaction between humans and virtual prototypes by involving multiple sensorial modalities, VR can be adopted to perform ergonomic analysis. The main problems deal with the evaluation both of functional and cognitive sample users behavior as VR interfaces influence the perception of the ergonomic human factors. We state that ergonomic analysis performed in virtual environment can be successful only if supported with a structured protocol for the study both of functional and cognitive aspects and with the proper VR technologies combination that answers to the specific analysis tasks. An ergonomic analysis protocol is presented. It allows the assessment of the consumers' response in term of behavioral and cognitive human factors, comprehending both operational and emotional agents. The protocol is also used to identify the best combination of visualization and haptic interfaces to perform the analysis. An experimental example, belonging to house appliances field is adopted to investigate the application of the protocol in the virtual set up.

While the addition of an anthropomorphic interface agent to a learning system generally has little direct impact on learning, it potentially has a huge impact on learner motivation. As such agents become increasingly ubiquitous on the Internet, in virtual worlds, and as interfaces for learning and gaming systems, it is important to design them to optimally impact motivation. The focus of this paper is on the design of agents and avatars (one's self-representation as a visual agent) for enhancing motivational and affective outcomes, such as improving self-efficacy, engagement and satisfaction, moderating frustration, and/or improving stereotypes. Together with motivational messages and dialogue (which are not discussed here), the agent's appearance is the most important design feature as it dictates the learner's perception of the agent as a virtual social model, in the Bandurian sense. The message delivery, through a human-like voice with appropriate and relevant emotional expressions, is also a key motivational design feature. More research is needed to determine the specifics with respect to the ideal agent voice and the role of other nonverbal communication (e.g., deictic gestures) that may contribute to the agent's role as an embodied motivator, particularly in the long-term. Z8 1

3-D models are often developed to aid the design and development of indoor and outdoor environments. This study explores the use of interactive 3-D visualization for public consultation for outdoor environments. Two visualization techniques (interactive 3-D visualization and static visualization) were compared using the method of individual testing. Visualization technique had no effect on the perception of the represented outdoor environment, but there was a preference for using interactive 3-D. Previously established mechanisms for a preference for interactive 3-D visualization in other domains were confirmed in the perceived strengths and weaknesses of visualization techniques. In focus-group discussion, major preferences included provision of more information through interactive 3-D visualization and wider access to information for public consultation. From a users' perspective, the findings confirm the strong potential of interactive 3-D visualization for public consultation. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Z8 1

This paper will report on the preliminary findings from two universities who, as a part of a NSF-funded nine university collaborative, have implemented virtual dissections through the use of design repositories. Data for the work-in-progress paper was collected via instructor interviews, focus group interviews and student surveys from over 200 students enrolled in sophomore engineering courses at two universities. In the courses students were part of product design teams that took a product, disassembled it, investigated various design and manufacturing issues associated with the products, and then reassembled the product - standard reverse engineering learning activities. However, each project was centered around a national product dissection project and utilized state-of-the-art digital design and dissection tools. Groups used product repositories to upload/download digital models of their products and components, along with communication modules. Training for the use of the design repository was provided in class. While this paper will supply information on how other instructors can access some of these cyber-tools and how these tools greatly reduce the cost of product dissection, the main focus of this work-in-progress paper will be to report on how students have interacted with the virtual dissection materials. Among the findings to be reported will be the students' perceptions as to the advantages and disadvantages of virtual, as opposed to real-life, dissections and collaborations. The work-in-progress paper will also report on both instructors' and students' suggestions on how cyber-tools and related technologies can support the reverse engineering process and enhance its impact in product design.

In this information age computer modelling and simulation is proving an indispensable tool for system design, operation, analysis, decision-making, optimisation, education and training. World leading operations are increasingly relying on modelling and simulation to develop more efficient systems and to produce higher quality products and services. Modelling and simulation allows scientists and engineers a better understanding of three-dimensional and time-dependent phenomena, as well as providing a platform for predicting future behaviour. This paper covers aspects of a keynote speech delivered by Saeid Nahavandi which focus on the challenges associated with the modelling and simulation of engineered systems and discusses how knowledge visualisation can provide effective communication to various levels of organisational management. Through examining the concepts of knowledge visualization, performance and spatial cognition and its relationship with user performance, perceptions and feedback on a series of assembly operations, tangible benefits of knowledge creation and representation of a 3 dimensional engineered system for training of complex motor and technical skills are shown.

Virtual reality (VR) is becoming increasingly popular in educational applications, but insufficient users' feel of immersion often slows the further adoption of VR. Many solutions with a focus on the results rather than the details of the interactions between the objects in the real and virtual worlds have been developed. Therefore, the real procedures are distorted and the users lose their perception of in -person participation. In order to improve the users' feel of immersion further and to simulate more realistic operations in VR, a procedure oriented approach for the combination of real and virtual environments is proposed here. As its name implies, this approach emphasizes the details of the procedures, namely how to capture, track, operate and interoperate the real and virtual objects in a mixed environment. In order to illustrate this idea, a prototype of mixed real and virtual assembly, in con junction with object recognition and rigid -object tracking functions based on robotic vision techniques, is presented as an example. This prototype is designed based on a game -based virtual la oratory system, and the specific implementation is a planetary gear train experiment. In this experiment, all models of the parts with the information required for the assembly are created, labeled and added to the database of the virtual laboratory system. The physical parts are marked in order to facilitate object recognition and object tracking. During the experiment, the main assembly with one missing planetary gear is accomplished in a purely virtual environment. In the real world, the missing planetary gear is tracked by a Kinect while the user is manipulating this gear. Then, the system recognizes this gear based on the markers and couples the corresponding virtual model of that gear with the avatar's hand in the virtual environment. Afterward, the cam -era tracks the real part, and the user can adjust its pose and location to finish the final assembly. The main benefit of this implementation is that the user can take advantage of some simple real parts in conjunction with virtual models of sophisticated parts in order to get realistic experience with the assembly process.

Hand-eye coordination and reaction time are essential for many sports and are associated with cognitive health. Training hand-eye coordination is hence important but can be limited by lack of equipment, suitable facilities, instructors, or training partners. In this research, we have designed a VR squash game for training handeye coordination at home, and we investigate users' perceptions of the tool and how it compares with traditional training. A user study with 30 participants shows that our application is significantly more enjoyable (P = 0.031) than the control group activity and that users perceive the tool as similarly effective in improving hand-eye coordination as non-game training activities. Whilewe didn't perform a longitudinal study investigating the effectiveness of the training, our results are important since enjoyment and perceived usefulness are essential for long-term usage.

Remote manipulation of a robot without assistance in an unstructured environment is a challenging task for operators. In this paper, a novel methodology for haptic constraints in a point cloud augmented virtual reality environment is proposed to address this human operation limitation. The proposed method generates haptic constraints in real time for an unstructured environment, including regional constraints and guidance constraints. A modified implicit surface method is applied for regional constraint generation for the entire point cloud. Additionally, the isosurface derived from the implicit surface is proposed for real-time three-dimensional artificial force field estimation. For guidance constraint generation, a new incremental prediction and local artificial force field generation method based on the modified sigmoid model is proposed in an unstructured point cloud virtual reality environment. With the generated haptic constraints, the operator can control the robot to realize obstacle avoidance and easily reach the target tasks. System evaluation is conducted, and the result demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method. In addition, a 10-participant study with users who control the robot to three specific targets shows that the system can enhance human operation efficiency and reduce time costs by at least 59% compared with no-haptic-constraint operations. Additionally, the designed questionnaire also demonstrates that the proposed methodology can reduce the workload during human operations.

Medical professionals require in-situ visualization of X-ray imaging in 3D to assist with surgical navigation and planning. Research on surgical Augmented Reality (AR) focuses on improving the tracking quality of devices and tools but disregards human requirements. Our user study evaluates application areas and potentials for AR in neurosurgery, as well as feedback for HoloLens 2 based inside-out tracking systems. The main findings include a reported simplification in perception and lowered mental workload. Additionally, we propose a simplified implementation for an infrared-based inside-out rigid body pose estimation system on HoloLens 2 to redirect feedback away from the tracking problem and gain access to human requirements for such systems. Decent patient and exemplary instrument tracking are reached.

Lighting features act as driving forces that control visual attention and perception. VR can analyse the relationship between human behavior and environment stimuli, while machine learning (ML) can exploit these data to develop a predictive model. This paper aims to develop an approach for predicting visual attention using VR and ML algorithms. VR was applied to experiment 4 virtual 360 scenes of a generic daylit exhibition space, and 41 participants were recruited. Measurements of head tracking were inves-tigated to capture the areas of interest (AoI) within the space under different daylight conditions. Features were extracted to train the ML models through luminance, spatial contrast, and center bias. Results showed the potential of ML for predicting the visual behaviour. When comparing predicted with measured data, the accuracy reached 71 % using ensemble bagged trees algorithm. This study acts as a proof-of-concept for predicting visual attention using ML algorithms, highlighting the potentials of ML and VR for adopting human-centric design. Thus, it allows architects and lighting designers to promote more interesting and interacting visual experience.(c) 2022 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier BV on behalf of Faculty of Engineering, Ain Shams Uni-versity. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/ by-nc-nd/4.0/).

Purpose - This paper aims to explore the ethical and social impact of augmented visual field devices (AVFDs), identifying issues that AVFDs share with existing devices and suggesting new ethical and social issues that arise with the adoption of AVFDs. Design/methodology/approach - This essay incorporates both a philosophical and an ethical analysis approach. It is based on Platos Allegory of the Cave, philosophical notions of transparency and presence and human values including psychological well-being, physical well-being, privacy, deception, informed consent, ownership and property and trust. Findings - The paper concludes that the interactions among developers, users and non-users via AVFDs have implications for autonomy. It also identifies issues of ownership that arise because of the blending of physical and virtual space and important ways that these devices impact, identity and trust. Practical implications - Developers ought to take time to design and implement an easy-to-use informed consent system with these devices. There is a strong need for consent protocols among developers, users and non-users of AVFDs. Social implications - There is a social benefit to users sharing what is visible on their devices with those who are in close physical proximity, but this introduces tension between notions of personal privacy and the establishment and maintenance of social norms. Originality/value - There is new analysis of how AVFDs impact individual identity and the attendant ties to notions of ownership of the space between an object and someones eyes and control over perception.

Prototyping is widely used as a means to illustrate and exemplify design requirements and intents and interact with designers and users. This paper aims to review the role and function of prototyping particularly in design concept validation. It reveals that prototypes offer interactive communication of concepts where the sense and perception of design concept intended by users is of primary importance. Our review also illustrates the rising trend from a physical prototyping approach to a more digital or mixed prototyping means. Accordingly, product attributes, whose values are presented by a prototype in conceptual design, are categorized into two major groups, namely sensed attributes and experienced attributes. The values of sensed attributes are directly received by human physiological senses and the values of experienced attributes are perceived through man-product\service interaction. Finally, by summarizing many existing research efforts including the communication of attribute values, this paper presents several major challenges in design concept validation through prototyping. It opens up a discussion regarding potential opportunities associated in this direction.

Understanding pedestrians' cognitive processes in traffic environments is crucial for developing strategies to enhance safety and reduce accidents. This study assesses the efficacy of virtual reality (VR) in evaluating pedestrian behavior in simulated road-crossing scenarios. It investigates VR's capability to realistically mimic the cognitive load experienced in real-world settings. It examines the technical integration of VR with psychophysiological recording to capture cognitive demand indicators accurately. Utilizing a dedicated VR application and electroencephalogram (EEG) measurements, this research aims to elicit significant Event-Related Potentials (ERP), like P3 and Contingent Negative Variation (CNV), associated with decision-making processes. The initial results demonstrate VR's effectiveness in creating realistic environments for investigating cognitive mechanisms and the balance between induced immersion and experienced discomfort. Additionally, the tasks involving time-to-arrival estimations and oddball scenarios elicited the anticipated components related to attentional and decision-making processes. Despite increased discomfort with extended VR exposure, our results show that it did not negatively impact the cognitive workload. These outcomes highlight VR's efficacy in replicating the cognitive demands of real-world settings and provide evidence to understand the neurophysiological and behavioral dynamics of vulnerable road users (VRUs) in traffic scenarios. Furthermore, these findings support VR's role in behavioral and neurophysiological research to design specific safety interventions for VRUs.

The virtual reality (VR) technology has been used as the application of architectural presentation or simulation tool in the field of industry. The high immersion and intuitive visual information are the great merits of design evaluation or environmental simulation when we are using the virtual environments. But the distortion of distance perception in VR is still a big problem when the accuracy of distance presentation is strictly required. In this paper, we have carried out some experiments about distance estimation in the immersive virtual environments to verify the factors and their influence. We made a hypothesis that the lack of the information for the user in VR causes the different distance estimation from the real world because users are usually comfortable with moving fast and long distance in VR environments. So, we carried out basic experiment to prove our hypothesis that the lack of information makes subjects estimate the walked distance in VR shorter compared with the same distance in real. Also, among the factors that probably affect the distance estimation in VR, we verified the influence of the image resolution. The influence of resolution degradation of image on the distance estimation was verified with the condition of static and dynamic images. The results showed that the resolution has deep relation with the distance estimation. For example, the subject underestimated the distance at the lower resolution condition. We also find the methods of the making the lower resolution image could affects on the visual perception of subjects.

This study investigates the usability, user experience (UX), and playability of a mixed reality (MR) game called Cubism, which allows participants to interact with holograms using hand gestures. We conducted an experiment with seven participants to evaluate their interaction with the game. The Usability and User Experience Evaluation in Touchable Hologram (UUXE-ToH) questionnaire was the primary data collection instrument to capture participants' perceptions of usability, satisfaction, and overall experience. Our findings indicate that the mixed reality environment of Cubism offers an engaging and intuitive user experience, though several challenges were identified. These insights contribute to the growing body of knowledge on human-computer interaction in mixed-reality contexts and suggest avenues for improving the design of future mixed-reality games. This research is valuable to the VR/AR/MR community by highlighting the critical factors influencing user interaction and satisfaction in MR games.

ERPsim is an intensive simulation game housed out of HEC Montreal. It allows students to operate an organization in a real-world enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Most of the research to date using ERPsim in the classroom is with face-to-face teams working together in a lab. With virtual teams being commonplace and most organizations having distributed operations, implementing ERPsim with virtual teams is representative of a real-world situation. How would using virtual teams affect technology acceptance, student satisfaction, and perceived student learning of ERP? This paper investigated the use of ERPsim with virtual teams. Data were collected using a pre- and post-test survey designed to measure technology acceptance, ERP and business process knowledge, and student satisfaction. T-tests were utilized to determine if students' perceptions of learning from the ERPsim were different after the virtual team experience than they were after the face-to-face team experience.

PurposeThis article aims to develop and validate a theoretical model via survey data to identify the affordances and challenges influencing metaverse adoption. We specifically examine the impact of immersion on users' adoption decisions and identify which affordances predict this immersion. Additionally, this paper assesses the importance of perceived risks in users' decision-making processes regarding future metaverse engagement.Design/methodology/approachUsing regression models applied to 198 survey responses, we tested our proposed model. To deepen our insights, we also conducted a qualitative analysis.FindingsThe findings confirm that users' perceptions of immersion and perceived risks are critical determinants in adoption decisions. Social presence, influenced by factors such as ubiquity and interoperability, emerges as a key component of immersion. From the qualitative data, we identified two potential strategies to enhance metaverse immersion: technical improvements and offline device-assisted strategies.Originality/valueOur study contributes to the literature on information systems (IS) adoption and provides practical insights for practitioners on crucial considerations in metaverse design.

This paper presents our ongoing efforts to design an immersive sonification model to represent protein surfaces through 3D sound, in order to extend pre-existing protein visualisation methods without overloading visual perception. The protein surface is first discretized so each point of the surface is attached to a sound source spatialized in such a way the user is immersed in the center of the protein. We add a spherical filtering system, that the user can control, to select the surface points that would be rendered in order to reinforce the auditory interpretation of the 3D shape. Several questions, which can benefit the VR and HCI communities, are discussed both on audio and audiographical filtering consistency, and on multimodal integration of data coming from different point of view and point of listening in a 3D interactive space.

IntroductionThe use of multiple interfaces may improve the perception of a stronger relationship between a conversational virtual coach and older adults. The purpose of this paper is to show the effect of output combinations [single-interface (chatbot, tangible coach), multi-interface (assignment, redundant-complementary)] of two distinct conversational agent interfaces (chatbot and tangible coach) on the eCoach-user relationship (closeness, commitment, complementarity) and the older adults' feeling of social presence of the eCoach.MethodsOur study was conducted with two different study settings: an online web survey and a face to face experiment.ResultsOur online study with 59 seniors shows that the output modes in multi-interface redundant-complementary manner significantly improves the eCoach-user relationship and social presence of the eCoach compared to only using single-interfaces outputs. Whereas in our face to face experiment with 15 seniors, significant results were found only in terms of higher social presence of multi-interface redundant complementary manner compared to chatbot only.DiscussionWe also investigated the effect of each study design on our results, using both quantitative and qualitative methods.

Despite offering new possibilities for the education, interpretation, preservation, and management of cultural assets, virtual heritage still demands more consistent theoretical-practical debates. Under the scope of developing historical buildings' virtual models, the level of detail (LOD) is defined as a parameter that directly affects workflows, requiring time, investments, and specialized professionals. This work investigates how different LOD configurations influence the construction and interpretation of three-dimensional models of historic buildings. To this end, five 3D models with different LODs of a historic building in Brazil were set in an exploratory study that addressed users' perceptions when experimenting with them from a phenomenological perspective. The goal was to identify which elements and LOD configurations of the model were preponderant. The experiment was performed through an online workshop, where first-year architecture students could virtually experience the 3D models created, comparing them to a movie of the existing building. Participants were divided into five groups, one for each proposed LOD, and described their experiences through reports that were then analyzed, considering a list of themes emerging from their speeches. The findings underwent statistical analysis to understand how different themes and videos were linked. The experiment findings showed that (1) the 3D models with higher LODs led to more comprehensive comments on the architecture of the building and (2) elements such as the building's surroundings, the humanization of the scenery, and the temporal depth of the 3D models should be considered in the virtual reconstruction process.

In this paper, the effects of three visual factors: scene complexity, stereovision and motion parallax on correct perception of a virtual object's size were analyzed in an immersive virtual environment. We designed a controlled experiments set to incorporate visual conditions that reflected all twelve different configuration combinations of the three visual factors. Under each visual condition, subject performed the task of making judgments of the sizes of a virtual object displayed at five different distances from him/her. A total number of eighteen subjects participated in our study. The subjects' judgments and the corresponding actual sizes of the virtual object were recorded. Based on the colleted data, two quantitative measures of subjects' performance were derived and analyzed. The results of our experiments were consistent across the majority of the subject population and suggested that scene complexity and stereovision could have significant impact on the performance of a user of virtual environments to make correct judgments on a virtual object's size. On the contrary, motion parallax, either produced by the virtual environment or by the observer, might not be a significant factor in determining that performance.

Purpose Augmented reality (AR) integrates the digital world with the real world and thus, provides a real-time experience to the users. With AR, the immediate surroundings become a learning platform for the users. The perception of the products has been enhanced many times with AR; thus, enriching user experience and responsiveness. The purpose of this paper is to bring forth the basics of AR and provide an overview of the research work carried out by researchers in the implementation of AR in different sectors. Design/methodology/approach This paper summarizes the usefulness of AR in different industries. The authors have identified the peer-reviewed research publications from Web of Science, Scopus, Google Scholar, etc. The selection of literature has been made based upon the significance of AR in recent times. The industries/sectors where AR has been implemented successfully have been considered for this paper. The paper has been divided into various sections and subsections to bring more clarity to the readers. Findings This paper presents a brief and a precise information on Industry 4.0 and AR. The basic working of AR system and its implications have also been discussed. The preference of AR over virtual reality (VR) has also been deliberated in this paper. The authors have presented the usefulness of AR in different sectors such as smart factories, ship yard building, online shopping, surgery and education. This paper discusses the AR-ready procedures being followed in these sectors. Originality/value AR has been an add-on to VR systems. The processes in industries have become very handy and informative with AR. Because the application of AR in different sectors has not been discussed in a single paper; thus, this work presents a systematic literature review on the applications of AR in different sectors/industries.

Multi-dimensions tactile displays, such as thermal and texture display, are desirable for enhancing perception while users experience virtual shopping such as touching a garment in virtual reality. Understanding the effect of one dimension on the other is fundamental for design of multi-dimensions tactile display. In this article, we report the effect of temperature on thresholds of voltage applied on an electrovibration tactile display. Three temperatures of the electrovibration tactile display at 18 degrees C (cold), 30 degrees C (neutral) and 38 degrees C (warm) were considered in two experiments. In Experiment I, we measured the absolute thresholds of square wave voltage with 25 Hz, 140 Hz and 485 Hz. In Experiment II, we measured the amplitude discrimination thresholds of same voltage signals as in Experiment I. The results show that the absolute thresholds differed significantly between 18 degrees C and 38 degrees C for all the three frequencies. No significant difference in the absolute threshold was found between 18 degrees C and 30 degrees C, except for the 485 Hz voltage. The amplitude discrimination thresholds were essentially constant except for that of the 485 Hz voltage at 18 degrees C, which were 17.11 Vpp and 16.86 Vpp larger than those at 30 degrees C and 38 degrees C, respectively. Z8 0

Visual information plays an important part in the perception of the world around us. Recently, head-mounted displays (HMD) came to the consumer market and became a part of everyday life of thousands of people. Like with the desktop screens or hand-held devices before, the public is concerned with the possible health consequences of the prolonged usage and question the adequacy of the default settings. It has been shown that the brightness and contrast of a display should be adjusted to match the external light to decrease eye strain and other symptoms. Currently, there is a noticeable mismatch in brightness between the screen and dark background of an HMD that might cause eye strain, insomnia, and other unpleasant symptoms. In this paper, we explore the possibility to significantly lower the screen brightness in the HMD and successfully compensate for the loss of the visual information on a dimmed screen. We designed a user study to explore the connection between the screen brightness in HMD and task performance, cybersickness, users' comfort, and preferences. We have tested three levels of brightness: the default Full Brightness, the optional Night Mode and a significantly lower brightness with original content and compensated content. Our results suggest that although users still prefer the brighter setting, the HMDs can be successfully used with significantly lower screen brightness, especially if the low screen brightness is compensated.

Haptic displays that can convey various material sensations and physical properties on conventional 2D displays or in virtual reality (VR) environments, have been widely explored in the field of human-computer interaction (HCI). We introduce a fabrication technique of haptic apparatus using 3D printed hairs, which can stimulate the users' sensory perception with hair-like bristles mimicking furry animals. Design parameters that determine 3D printed hair's properties such as length, density, and direction, can affect the stiffness and roughness of the contact area between the hair tip and the user's sensory receptors on their skin, thus changing stimulation patterns. To further explore the expressivity of this apparatus, we present a haptic display built with controlling mechanisms. The device is constructed by threading many 3D printed hairs through a perforated plate, manipulating the length and direction of hairs via the connected inner actuator. We present the design specifications including printing parameters, assembly, and electronics through a demonstration of prototypes, and future works.

Computer graphics applications controlled through natural gestures are gaining increasing popularity these days due to recent developments in low-cost tracking systems and gesture recognition technologies. Although interaction techniques through natural gestures have already demonstrated their benefits in manipulation, navigation and avatar-control tasks, effective selection with pointing gestures remains an open problem. In this paper we survey the state-of-the-art in 3D object selection techniques. We review important findings in human control models, analyze major factors influencing selection performance, and classify existing techniques according to a number of criteria. Unlike other components of the application's user interface, pointing techniques need a close coupling with the rendering pipeline, introducing new elements to be drawn, and potentially modifying the object layout and the way the scene is rendered. Conversely, selection performance is affected by rendering issues such as visual feedback, depth perception, and occlusion management. We thus review existing literature paying special attention to those aspects in the boundary between computer graphics and human-computer interaction. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Optical see-through head-mounted displays (OST HMDs) typically display virtual content at a fixed focal distance while users need to integrate this information with real-world information at different depth layers. This problem is pronounced in body-proximate multi-display systems, such as when an OST HMD is combined with a smartphone or smartwatch. While such joint systems open up a new design space, they also reduce users' ability to integrate visual information. We quantify this cost by presenting the results of an experiment (n=24) that evaluates human performance in a visual search task across an OST HMD and a body-proximate display at 30 cm. The results reveal that task completion time increases significantly by approximately 50% and the error rate increases significantly by approximately 100% compared to visual search on a single depth layer. These results highlight a design trade-off when designing joint OST HMD-body proximate display systems.

For us humans, walking is our most natural way of moving through the world. One of the major challenges in present research on navigation in virtual reality is to enable users to physically walk through virtual environments. Although treadmills, in principle, allow users to walk for extended periods of time through large virtual environments, existing setups largely fail to produce a truly immersive sense of navigation. Partially, this is because of inadequate control of treadmill speed as a function of walking behavior. Here, we present a new control algorithm that allows users to walk naturally on a treadmill, including starting to walk from standstill, stopping, and varying walking speed. The treadmill speed control consists of a feedback loop based on the measured user position relative to a given reference position, plus a feed-forward term based on online estimation of the user's walking velocity. The purpose of this design is to make the treadmill compensate fully for any persistent walker motion, while keeping the accelerations exerted on the user as low as possible. We evaluated the performance of the algorithm by conducting a behavioral experiment in which we varied its most important parameters. Participants walked at normal walking speed and then, on an auditory cue, abruptly stopped. After being brought back to the center of the treadmill by the control algorithm, they rated how smoothly the treadmill had changed its velocity in response to the change in walking speed. Ratings, in general, were quite high, indicating good control performance. Moreover, ratings clearly depended on the control algorithm parameters that were varied. Ratings were especially affected by the way the treadmill reversed its direction of motion. In conclusion, controlling treadmill speed in such a way that changes in treadmill speed are unobtrusive and do not disturb VR immersiveness is feasible on a normal treadmill with a straightforward control algorithm.

VR locomotion is one of the most important design features of VR applications and is widely studied. When evaluating locomotion techniques, user experience is usually the first consideration, as it provides direct insights into the usability of the locomotion technique and users' thoughts about it. In the literature, user experience is typically measured with post-hoc questionnaires or surveys, while users' behavioral (i.e., eye-tracking) data during locomotion, which can reveal deeper subconscious thoughts of users, has rarely been considered and thus remains to be explored. To this end, we investigate the feasibility of classifying users experiencing VR locomotion into L-UE and H-UE (i.e., low- and high-user-experience groups) based on eye-tracking data alone. To collect data, a user study was conducted in which participants navigated a virtual environment using five locomotion techniques and their eye-tracking data was recorded. A standard questionnaire assessing the usability and participants' perception of the locomotion technique was used to establish the ground truth of the user experience. We trained our machine learning models on the eye-tracking features extracted from the time-series data using a sliding window approach. The best random forest model achieved an average accuracy of over 0.7 in 50 runs. Moreover, the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) approach uncovered the underlying relationships between eye-tracking features and user experience, and these findings were further supported by the statistical results. Our research provides a viable tool for assessing user experience with VR locomotion, which can further drive the improvement of locomotion techniques. Moreover, our research benefits not only VR locomotion, but also VR systems whose design needs to be improved to provide a good user experience.

Recent years have witnessed the explosion of virtual reality (VR) videos and applications. This new form of media grants us the precious freedom we never had before to look at any directions of the video content. With such privilege, our desires for higher video resolution and frame-rate, better visual quality, and smoother watching experience have remarkably risen. However, VR videos occupy an astronomical amount of data, which poses unprecedented challenges to computation efficiency, deployment cost, and user experience of the system. In this paper, we propose RealVR, an end-to-end tile-based VR video system that faces and tackles such challenges. With all essential procedures from the initial capturing to the ultimate rendering included, the system is designed, implemented, and configured specifically to achieve the best balance among efficiency, economy, and quality-of-experience (QoE). It leverages the promising international VR standard, MPEG OMAF, to process and deliver 8K 60 fps VR video, but is also improved for much better performance and user experience than the pristine standard, especially for reducing the motion-to-high-quality (MtHQ) latency. It does not rely on additional expensive edge servers to offer an immersive user experience, which makes it more economical than many other works. Through extensive experiments, it is proven that RealVR can significantly improve the MtHQ experience and save bandwidth consumption without compromising on encoding efficiency or application cost, maximizing the user's freedom.

Precise and efficient performance in remote robotic teleoperation relies on intuitive interaction. This requires both accurate control actions and complete perception (vision, haptic, and other sensory feedback) of the remote environment. Especially in immersive remote teleoperation, the complete perception of remote environments in 3D allows operators to gain improved situational awareness. Color and Depth (RGB-D) cameras capture remote environments as dense 3D point clouds for real-time visualization. However, providing enough situational awareness needs fast, high-quality data transmission from acquisition to virtual reality rendering. Unfortunately, dense point-cloud data can suffer from network delays and limits, impacting the teleoperator's situational awareness. Understanding how the human eye works can help mitigate these challenges. This paper introduces a solution by implementing foveation, mimicking the human eye's focus by smartly sampling and rendering dense point clouds for an intuitive remote teleoperation interface. This provides high resolution in the user's central field, which gradually reduces toward the edges. However, this systematic visualization approach in the peripheral vision may benefit or risk losing information and burdening the user's cognitive load. This work investigates these advantages and drawbacks through an experimental study and describes the overall system, with its software, hardware, and communication framework. This will show significant enhancements in both latency and throughput, surpassing 60% and 40% improvements in both aspects when compared with state-of-the-art research works. A user study reveals that the framework has minimal impact on the user's visual quality of experience while helping to reduce the error rate significantly. Further, a 50 degrees'c reduction in task execution time highlights the benefits of the proposed framework in immersive remote telerobotics applications.

The last few years have seen a drastic increase in the consumption of virtual- and augmented-reality (VR and AR, respectively) applications. Ultimately, the success of any emerging technology will rely on the experience it provides the end user, and not on the technology itself. Subjective methods for quality-of-experience (QoE) assessment have as main disadvantage that converting such human factors into a quality rating is difficult, particularly for everyday users. To overcome this limitation, recent research has explored the use of objective methods to monitor neurophysiological correlates of relevant perception processes. In this paper, we describe the development of a neurophysiological sensor-equipped head-mounted display that combines a consumer off-the-shelf VR headset, a modified low-cost portable device for electroencephalogram (EEG) acquisition repurposed to simultaneously acquire EEG, electrocardiogram (ECG), and electrooculogram (EOG) signals with high-quality dry electrodes. The device was evaluated under three different scenarios, each one designed to test the different ExG modalities. Initial tests showed promising results and allowed for (1) steady-state visually evoked potentials to be accurately measured from EEG, (2) heart rate variability measurements to discriminate between different affective videos, and (3) EOG measurements to monitor gaze direction and eye blinks, all while users were mobile. Being able to accurately monitor signals from the autonomic and central nervous systems in an unobtrusive and portable manner is an important step for instrumental QoE assessment of emerging VR/AR applications.

The goal of this study was to develop a new method for neurosurgical education based on interactive stereoscopic virtual reality (ISVR). Interactive stereoscopic virtual reality can be used to recreate the three-dimensional (3D) experience of neurosurgical approaches much more realistically than standard educational methods. The demonstration of complex 3D relationships is unrivaled and easily combined with interactive learning and multimedia capabilities. Interactive stereoscopic virtual reality permits the accurate recreation of neurosurgical approaches through integration of several forms of stereoscopic multimedia (video, interactive anatomy, and computer-rendered animations). The content explored using ISVR is obtained through a combination of approach-based cadaver dissections, live surgical images and videos. and computer-rendered animations. These media are combined through an interactive software interface to demonstrate key aspects of a neurosurgical approach (for example, patient positioning, draping, incision, individual surgical steps, alternative steps, relevant anatomy). The ISVR platform is designed for use on a desktop personal computer with newly developed. inexpensive, platform-independent shutter glasses. Interactive stereoscopic virtual reality has been used to capture the anatomy and methods of several neurosurgical approaches. In this paper the authors report their experience with ISVR and describe its potential advantages. The success of a neurosurgical approach is contingent on the mastery of complex, 3D anatomy. A new technology for neurosurgical education. ISVR can improve understanding and speed the learning process. It is an effective tool for neurosurgical education, bridging the substantial gap between textbooks and intraoperative training. Z8 6

Based on glove puppetry, a traditional cultural pursuit of Taiwan, this study designed a virtual reality (VR) intergenerational game to bring together the elderly and young participants. In the game, a system of cooperation and sharing was constructed which would lead to an exchange between experience and knowledge of traditional culture and digital technology and result in intergenerational interaction and communication learning. Through interviews with eight subjects after the empirical study, this study explored the operation and experience of this game, the perception of interaction and dialogue, and the cultural heritage and learning. According to the research findings, VR game cultural elements and technology learning positively influence intergenerational relations and communication. Key factors of VR intergenerational games include the following: (1) the game content must be attractive for the elderly; (2) the operating procedure of the game and affordance of the interface for the elderly must be simplified; and (3) the game must establish a sense of achievement for players.

Foveated rendering synthesizes images with progressively less detail outside the eye fixation region, potentially unlocking significant speedups for wide field-of-view displays, such as head mounted displays, where target framerate and resolution is increasing faster than the performance of traditional real-time renderers. To study and improve potential gains, we designed a foveated rendering user study to evaluate the perceptual abilities of human peripheral vision when viewing today's displays. We determined that filtering peripheral regions reduces contrast, inducing a sense of tunnel vision. When applying a postprocess contrast enhancement, subjects tolerated up to 2x larger blur radius before detecting differences from a non-foveated ground truth. After verifying these insights on both desktop and head mounted displays augmented with high-speed gaze-tracking, we designed a perceptual target image to strive for when engineering a production foveated renderer. Given our perceptual target, we designed a practical foveated rendering system that reduces number of shades by up to 70% and allows coarsened shading up to 30 degrees closer to the fovea than Guenter et al. [2012] without introducing perceivable aliasing or blur. We filter both pre-and post-shading to address aliasing from undersampling in the periphery, introduce a novel multiresolution-and saccade-aware temporal antialising algorithm, and use contrast enhancement to help recover peripheral details that are resolvable by our eye but degraded by filtering. We validate our system by performing another user study. Frequency analysis shows our system closely matches our perceptual target. Measurements of temporal stability show we obtain quality similar to temporally filtered non-foveated renderings.

In recent years, advances in accessible technology have shown their potential to support and assist people with vision impairment. Current State of the Art Research is focused on Sensory Substitution Designs or Devices (SSDs) for assisting people with visual impairments. Moreover, research focuses on accommodating the individuals' perceptions, sensations, and emotions by incorporating multisensory integration, relatable music, and Ultrasonic Haptic Feedback. This paper discusses the current State of the Art and identifies the gaps in assistive technologies for people with visual impairment. Moreover, this paper proposes a framework that will provide multi-sensory feedback to enhance the person's experience in a museum and their perception of art paintings.

This paper proposes a vibrotactile glove interface that enabled users to perceive tactile sensations of virtual objects. The proposed vibrotactile interface was designed to be easy-to-use, easily portable, and lightweight. Active touch might also be useful to realize informative tactile communication. To provide tactile stimuli based on movement of the fingers, five bending sensors were installed on the glove. In this study, the relationship of the correspondence between vibrotactile stimuli and tactile mental imagery was investigated. Subjects' mental impressions of vibrotactile stimuli were measured by using the semantic differential (SD) method. Distinctive imagery from subjects' answers was extracted for factor analysis. After that, a vibration stimuli model was applied to active touch. The tactile mental imagery of users was evaluated for both passive and active touches.

Anyanwu GE, Agu AU, Anyaehie UB. Enhancing learning objectives by use of simple virtual microscopic slides in cellular physiology and histology: impact and attitudes. Adv Physiol Educ 36: 158-163, 2012; doi:10.1152/advan.00008.2012.-The impact and perception of students on the use of a simple, low technology-driven version of a virtual microscope in teaching and assessments in cellular physiology and histology were studied. Its impact on the time and resources of the faculty were also assessed. Simple virtual slides and conventional microscopes were used to conduct the same examinations for the same students. Students performed significantly better in the examination with the virtual slide and also showed a significantly higher preference for virtual slides. The time and cost implications of conducting examinations using the simple virtual slides were reduced by >1,400%. The results reemphasize the need for the design and adoption of simple sustainable technological innovations in developing countries to bridge gaps in purposeful learning environments.

This study used a trait/treatment conceptual model with a single-treatment design to examine effects of gender, computer gaming experience, age, and visual skill on learners' performance and perceptions in an online desktop virtual environment (DVE). Participants were 55 adult students in a sub-baccalaureate surgical technology program. The DVE presented two operating rooms (ORs) and their contents. The DVE was a "first-person" environment in which learners controlled their exploration and navigation and viewed the ORs from their own perspective as f seeing them in the physical world. Results indicated that gender, gaming experience, and age affected the learners 'spatial orientation, perceived confidence, and perceived task difficulty in the DVE, but visual skill did not. Correlations were also found among several of the learner variables. Recommendations are made for both practice and further research.

The digital transformation of the construction sector is also involving cultural and architectural heritage conservation management to solve criticalities of information exchange in refurbishment/restoration, from the preliminary steps until the execution and monitoring of interventions. Nevertheless, time and resources required to complete digital models (point clouds, 3D meshes and HBIM model) are extensive and this can cause interruption of knowledge communication among professionals. The VERBuM project (Virtual Enhanced Reality For Building Modelling) aims at investigating how a central Virtual Technical Tour (VTT), would guarantee a continuous stream of information when other disruptive technologies are integrated in the process and their related products are linked to the VTT. The use of a VTT, based on 360 degrees photos, may fill time and resources gaps as it is a rapid up-to-date and high-fidelityto-reality tool. The fostering of the paradigmatic change in refurbishment/restoration process requires the development of all-in-one digital environments for digital twinning of cultural and architectural heritage and its assessment, aware of potentialities and criticalities to be overcame. The research moves from stakeholders' information requirements to implement the VERBuM process supported by the central VTT, editable via cloud-based platform (VERBuM product) to exchange digital contents, uploaded in different file format, but consulted in VR by all the involved actors via web services, without any software product installation. The tool has been evaluated via SWOT analysis supported by Task-Technology Fit (TTF) model and users ' perceptions. The results provide mitigation measures of threats related to distrust in use of VTT within working groups and fruition of point clouds, meshes and BIM models, possible via WebGL-based libraries.

This study explored the relationship between metaverse experience and travel decisions through a survey of 459 Brazilian ZEPETO users. The results show that well-organized affordances had a significant impact on users' sense of presence. Neither social realism nor cyber sickness had a significant impact on immersion, but spatial presence was strongly correlated with immersion and place attachment. Higher immersion did not consistently lead to higher place attachment or intention to visit South Korea. These findings highlight the need for welldesigned affordances to enhance presence in the metaverse. While perceptions of co-presence and spatial presence can promote place attachment, they can also have potentially negative effects by inducing excessive immersion. Nevertheless, moderate use of metaverses can be a powerful tourism strategy by stimulating the desire to visit replicated places. The study suggests that the feeling of being with other users in a particular virtual space that represents the real world well can create an attachment to a place and lead to more visits.

Maps based on virtual reality (VR) are evolving and are being increasingly used in the field of geography. However, the advantages of VR based on the map use processes of users over desktop-based environments (DEs) are not fully understood. In this study, an experiment was conducted in which 120 participants performed map use tasks using maps and globes in VR and DE. The participants' eye movements and questionnaires were collected to compare the map use performance differences. We analyzed the general metrics, information searching and processing metrics of participants (e.g. response time, RT; average fixation duration, AFD; average saccade duration, ASD; saccade frequency, SF, etc.) using maps and globes in different environments. We found that the participants using VR processed information more efficiently (AFD(DE) = 233.34 ms, AFD(VR) = 173.09 ms), and the participants using DE had both a significantly shorter response time (RTDE = 88.68 s, RTVR = 124.05 s) and a shorter visual search time (ASD(DE) = 60.78 ms, ASD(VR) = 112.13 ms; SFDE = 6.30, SFVR = 2.07). We also found similarities in accuracy, satisfaction and readability. These results are helpful for designing VR maps that can adapt to human cognition and reflect the advantages of VR.

Holographic displays have gained unprecedented attention as next-generation virtual and augmented reality applications with recent achievements in the realization of a high-contrast image through computer-generated holograms (CGHs). However, these holograms show a high energy concentration in a limited angular spectrum, whereas the holograms with uniformly distributed angular spectrum suffer from a severe speckle noise in the reconstructed images. In this study, we claim that these two physical phenomena attributed to the existing CGHs significantly limit the support of accommodation cues, which is known as one of the biggest advantages of holographic displays. To support the statement, we analyze and evaluate various CGH algorithms with contrast gradients - a change of contrast over the change of the focal diopter of the eye - simulated based on the optical configuration of the display system and human visual perception models. We first introduce two approaches to improve monocular accommodation response in holographic viewing experience; optical and computational approaches to provide holographic images with sufficient contrast gradients. We design and conduct user experiments with our prototype of holographic near-eye displays, validating the deficient support of accommodation cues in the existing CGH algorithms and demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed solutions with significant improvements on accommodative gains.

There is a discussion on the potential of augmented reality (AR), mobile technologies to enhance learning. This article presents: 1) the EduPARK project's first cycle of design-based research for the development of a mobile AR game-like app that aims to promote learning in an urban park, and 2) an experience of students using it in loco. The focus is the students' perceptions regarding the usability and functionality of the app. Data collection involved focus groups, questionnaires and app usage information. Data was submitted to content analysis and descriptive statistics. Results revealed an excellent usability of the EduPARK app, with an average system usability scale of 85.6. Overall, students reported that the app was enjoyable, easy to use and promoted learning; however, improvements and more evaluation experiences are needed to better understand mobile AR game-like learning in urban parks. Z8 0

When avoiding a group, a walker has two possibilities: either he goes through it or around it. Going through very dense groups or around huge ones would not seem natural and could break any sense of presence in a virtual environment. This paper aims to enable crowd simulators to handle such situations correctly. To this end, we need to understand how real humans decide to go through or around groups. As a first hypothesis, we apply the Principle of Minimum Energy (PME) on different group sizes and density. According to this principle, a walker should go around small and dense groups whereas he should go through large and sparse groups. Such principle has already been used for crowd simulation; the novelty here is to apply it to decide on a global avoidance strategy instead of local adaptations only. Our study quantifies decision thresholds. However, PME leaves some inconclusive situations for which the two solutions paths have similar energetic costs. In a second part, we propose an experiment to corroborate PME decisions thresholds with real observations. As controlling the factors of an experiment with many people is extremely hard, we propose to use Virtual Reality as a new method to observe human behavior. This work represents the first crowd simulation algorithm component directly designed from a VR-based study. We also consider the role of secondary factors in inconclusive situations. We show the influence of the group appearance and direction of relative motion in the decision process. Finally, we draw some guidelines to integrate our conclusions to existing crowd simulators and show an example of such integration. We evaluate the achieved improvements.

Embodied conversational agents become more and more important in various virtual reality applications, e.g., as peers, trainers or therapists. Besides their appearance and behavior, appropriate speech is required for them to be perceived as human-like and realistic. Additionally to the used voice signal, also its auralization in the immersive virtual environment has to be believable. Therefore, we investigated the effect of adding directivity to the speech sound source. Directivity simulates the orientation dependent auralization with regard to the agent's head orientation. We performed a one-factorial user study with two levels (n=35) to investigate the effect directivity has on the perceived social presence and realism of the agent's voice. Our results do not indicate any significant effects regarding directivity on both variables covered. We account this partly to an overall too low realism of the virtual agent, a not overly social utilized scenario and generally high variance of the examined measures. These results are critically discussed and potential further research questions and study designs are identified.

BackgroundThe combination of virtual reality (VR) and palliative care potentially represents a new opportunity for palliative care. Many previous studies have evaluated the application of VR therapy to patients with advanced disease receiving palliative care. However, patient-perspective reviews to comprehensively understand the actual experiences and feelings of patients and provide practical guidance for designing future studies are currently lacking. This review of qualitative evidence aimed to explore the experiences and perceptions of patients receiving VR therapy in palliative care.MethodsThis study was conducted in accordance with the Enhancing Transparency in Reporting the Synthesis of Qualitative Research (ENTREQ) statement guidelines. Ten databases, namely, PubMed, Web of Science, EBSCO, OVID MEDLINE, Scopus, John Wiley, ProQuest, CNKI, WANFANG DATA, and SinoMed, were searched, and qualitative and mixed studies from the establishment of each database to June 30, 2023 were included. The Joanna Briggs Institute Critical Appraisal Checklist for Qualitative Research was used to assess the quality of the included studies. The data included in the literature were analyzed and integrated by "thematic synthesis" to formalize the identification and development of themes.ResultsThe nine selected studies altogether included 156 participants from seven hospice care facilities of different types and two oncology centers. Three key themes were identified: experiences of palliative care patients in VR therapy, the perceived value that palliative care patients gain in VR therapy, and perspectives of palliative care patients toward using VR therapy.ConclusionsThe patients' feedback covered discomfort caused by VR devices, good sense of experiences, and situations that affected the interactive experience. Some patients were unable to tolerate VR therapy or reported newer forms of discomfort. The findings indicated that VR therapy may be an effective approach to relieve patients' physical and psychological pain and help them gain self-awareness. Moreover, patients showed a preference for personalized VR therapy.

Understanding stereochemistry is of critical importance for students aiming to be future chemists, molecular biologists, pharmacists, pharmacologists or physicians. Stereochemistry focuses on the study of the stereoisomers which have the same molecular formula but differ only in the spatial orientation of their atoms resulting in different physical, chemical or biological properties. Hence spatial thinking skill is essential for students to interpret stereoisomers. Augmented reality helps enhance the spatial perception of 3D molecules. StereoChem, our mobile app for visualizing augmented 3D molecular models harnesses this advantage of augmented reality to aid teaching and learning of stereochemistry. This paper gives a brief introduction to the significance and challenges of learning stereochemistry. It describes the design inputs that were considered for encouraging the ubiquitous use of our app by chemistry teachers and students, then discusses the development of the StereoChem app and the teaching-learning contexts in which it can be used. Finally, it gives an account of the user experience study done with 50 chemistry teachers.

BACKGROUND: Surgery is a highly technical field that combines continuous decision-making with the coordination of spatiovisual tasks. OBJECTIVE: We designed a virtual interactive presence and augmented reality (VIPAR) platform that allows a remote surgeon to deliver real-time virtual assistance to a local surgeon, over a standard Internet connection. METHODS: The VIPAR system consisted of a "local" and a "remote" station, each situated over a surgical field and a blue screen, respectively. Each station was equipped with a digital viewpiece, composed of 2 cameras for stereoscopic capture, and a high-definition viewer displaying a virtual field. The virtual field was created by digitally compositing selected elements within the remote field into the local field. The view-pieces were controlled by workstations mutually connected by the Internet, allowing virtual remote interaction in real time. Digital renderings derived from volumetric MRI were added to the virtual field to augment the surgeon's reality. For demonstration, a fixed-formalin cadaver head and neck were obtained, and a carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and pterional craniotomy were performed under the VIPAR system. RESULTS: The VIPAR system allowed for real-time, virtual interaction between a local (resident) and remote (attending) surgeon. In both carotid and pterional dissections, major anatomic structures were visualized and identified. Virtual interaction permitted remote instruction for the local surgeon, and MRI augmentation provided spatial guidance to both surgeons. Camera resolution, color contrast, time lag, and depth perception were identified as technical issues requiring further optimization. CONCLUSION: Virtual interactive presence and augmented reality provide a novel platform for remote surgical assistance, with multiple applications in surgical training and remote expert assistance.

Virtual reality trainers are educational tools with great potential for laparoscopic surgery. They can provide basic skills training in a controlled environment and free of risks for patients. They can also offer objective performance assessment without the need for proctors. However, designing effective. user interfaces that allow the acquisition of the appropriate technical skills on these systems remains a challenge. This paper aims to examine a process for achieving interface and environment fidelity during the development of the Virtual Basic Laparoscopic Surgical Trainer (VBLaST). Two iterations of the design process were conducted and evaluated. For that purpose, a total of 42 subjects participated in two experimental studies in which two versions of the VBLaST were compared to the accepted standard in the surgical community for training and assessing basic laparoscopic skills in North America, the FLS box trainer. Participants performed 10 trials of the peg transfer task on each trainer. The assessment of task performance was based on the validated FLS scoring method. Moreover, a subjective evaluation questionnaire was used to assess the fidelity aspects of the VBLaST relative to the FLS trainer. Finally, a focus group session with expert surgeons was conducted as a comparative situated evaluation after the first design iteration. This session aimed to assess the fidelity aspects of the early VBLaST prototype as compared to the FLS trainer. The results indicate that user performance on the earlier version of the VBLaST resulting from the first design iteration was significantly lower than the performance on the standard FLS box-trainer. The comparative situated evaluation with domain experts permitted us to identify some issues related to the visual, haptic and interface fidelity on this early prototype. Results of the second experiment indicate that the performance on the second generation VBLaST was significantly improved as compared to the first generation and not significantly different from that of the standard FLS box-trainer. Furthermore, the subjects rated the fidelity features of the modified VBLaST version higher than the early version. These findings demonstrate the value of the comparative situated evaluation sessions entailing hands on reflection by domain experts to achieve the environment and interface fidelity and training objectives when designing a virtual reality laparoscopic trainer. This suggests that this method could be used successfully in the future to enhance the value of VR systems as an alternative to physical trainers for laparoscopic surgery skills. Some recommendations on how to use this method to achieve the environment and interface fidelity of a VR laparoscopic surgical trainer are identified. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Target acquisition tasks quantify human motor and perceptual abilities while performing discrete tasks to support interface design and sensorimotor assessments. This study investigated the effects of display, Touchscreen and Augmented Reality (AR), on a standardized 2D multidirectional target acquisition task. Thirty-two participants performed the target acquisition task with both modality types and at two indexes of difficulty. The touchscreen modality yielded improved performance over AR as measured by accuracy, precision, error rates, throughput, and movement time. Throughput using the nominal index of difficulty was 10.12 bits/s for touchscreen and 3.11 bits/s for AR. AR designers can use the results to improve performance when designing AR interfaces by selecting larger buttons when accuracy and efficiency are required and by embedding perception cues to button target surfaces such as depth and proximity cues.

Supporting education and training initiatives has been identified as an effective way to address Sustainable Development Challenges. In this sense, e-learning stands out as one of the most viable alternatives considering its advantages in terms of resources, time management, and geographical location. Understanding the reasons that move users to adopt these technologies is critical for achieving the desired social objectives. The Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) provides valuable guidelines to identify the variables shaping users' acceptance of innovations. The present study aims to validate a TAM extension designed for FARMER 4.0, an e-learning application in the agricultural sector. Findings suggest that content quality (CQ) is the primary determinant of farmers' and agricultural entrepreneurs' perception of the tool's usefulness (PU). Furthermore, experience (EXP) and self-efficacy (SE) shape potential users' perceptions about ease of use (PEOU). This study offers helpful insight into the design and development of e-learning applications in the farming sector and provides empirical evidence of TAM's validity to assess technology acceptance.

Sensory stimuli in an architectural space play an important role in the human perception of the indoor environment, no matter whether they are static or dynamic, isolated, or combined. By enhancing some perceptions in the sensory stimuli, the overall perceptions of an architectural space can be improved, especially for an intelligent architectural space. As yet, there are few studies reported about the sensory perception mechanism for the sensory stimuli operation in the architectural experience. In this research, a wooden micro building was prepared for the study of the sensitivity level of participants to various sensory stimuli in the same and in different sensory domains. Participants' visual, auditory, olfactory, tactile and kinaesthesia perceptions were discussed statistically in terms of the sensitivity level. Based on the study, the effect of a single dynamic sensory stimulus (a dynamically coloured light) on the participants' perception was studied in a paper architectural model from two aspects including preference and emotion. The dynamically coloured light was discussed statistically in terms of the level of preference. The study showed that there are significant differences among participants' levels of sensitivity to the different sensory domains and to the different sensory stimuli. In particular, the sensitivity level to the stimulus that is the colour of a space is the highest of all stimuli. As a single changing sensory stimulus, a dynamically coloured light can lead to significant mood fluctuations and changes in the preference level. In particular, yellow is the favourite colour of light. The object of this study is expected to provide a theoretical foundation that is related to sensory choice, sensory perception enhancement and the combination forms of sensory perceptions. Based on the theoretical foundation, the perception design of overlapped multi-sensory stimuli and a single dynamic stimulus can be conducted to improve the quality of the indoor environment of normal and intelligent multi-sensory architecture.

Purpose - This study aims to investigate "immersive reading," which occurs when individuals read text while in a virtual reality (VR) or augmented reality (AR) environment. Design/methodology/approach - In Experiment 1, 64 participants read text passages and answered multiple-choice questions in VR and AR head-mounted displays (HMDs) compared with doing the same task on liquid crystal display (LCD). In Experiment 2, 31 participants performed the same reading tasks but with two VR HMDs of different display quality. Findings - Compared with reading on LCD as the baseline, participants reading in VR and AR HMDs got 82% (VR) and 88% (AR) of the information accurately. Participants tended to respond more accurately and faster, though not statistically significant, with the VR HMD of higher pixel density in the speed-reading task. Originality/value - The authors observed the speed and accuracy of reading in VR and AR environments, compared with the reading speed and accuracy on an LCD monitor. The authors also compared the reading performance on two VRHMDs that differed in display quality but were otherwise similar in every way.

Virtual Reality (VR) has emerged as a promising solution to address the pressing concern of transferring know-how in the manufacturing industry. Making an immersive training experience often involves designing an instrumented replica of a tool whose use is to be learned through virtual training. The process of making a replica can alter its mass, making it different from that of the original tool. As far as we know, the influence of this difference on learning outcomes has never been evaluated. To investigate this subject, an immersive training experience was designed with pre and post-training phases under real conditions, dedicated to learning the use of a rotary tool. 80 participants took part in this study, split into three groups: a control group performing the virtual training using a replica with the same mass as the original tool (m = 100%), a second group that used a replica with a lighter mass than the original tool (m= 50%) and a third group using a replica heavier than the original tool (m = 150%). Despite variations in the mass of the replica used for training, this study revealed that the learning outcomes remained comparable across all groups, while also demonstrating significant enhancements in certain performance measures, including task completion time. Overall, these findings provide useful insights regarding the design of tool replicas for immersive training.

Phenomenon: Virtual reality simulators are the subject of several recent studies of skills training for robot-assisted surgery. Yet no consensus exists regarding what a core skill set comprises or how to measure skill performance. Defining a core skill set and relevant metrics would help surgical educators evaluate different simulators. Approach: This review draws from published research to propose a core technical skill set for using the da Vinci surgeon console. Publications on three commercial simulators were used to evaluate the simulators' content addressing these skills and associated metrics. Findings: An analysis of published research suggests that a core technical skill set for operating the surgeon console includes bimanual wristed manipulation, camera control, master clutching to manage hand position, use of third instrument arm, activating energy sources, appropriate depth perception, and awareness of forces applied by instruments. Validity studies of three commercial virtual reality simulators for robot-assisted surgery suggest that all three have comparable content and metrics. However, none have comprehensive content and metrics for all core skills. Insights: Virtual reality simulation remains a promising tool to support skill training for robot-assisted surgery, yet existing commercial simulator content is inadequate for performing and assessing a comprehensive basic skill set. The results of this evaluation help identify opportunities and challenges that exist for future developments in virtual reality simulation for robot-assisted surgery. Specifically, the inclusion of educational experts in the development cycle alongside clinical and technological experts is recommended.

Visual search becomes challenging when the time to find the target is limited. Here we focus on how performance in visual search can be improved via a subtle saliency-aware modulation of the scene. Specifically, we investigate whether blurring salient regions of the scene can improve participant's ability to find the target faster when the target is located in non-salient areas. A set of real-world omnidirectional images were displayed in virtual reality with a search target overlaid on the visual scene at a pseudorandom location. Participants performed a visual search task in three conditions defined by blur strength, where the task was to find the target as fast as possible. The mean search time, and the proportion of trials where participants failed to find the target, were compared across different conditions. Furthermore, the number and duration of fixations were evaluated. A significant effect of blur on behavioral and fixation metrics was found using linear mixed models. This study shows that it is possible to improve the performance by a saliency-aware subtle scene modulation in a challenging realistic visual search scenario. The current work provides an insight into potential visual augmentation designs aiming to improve user's performance in everyday visual search tasks.

As technology advances in the field of food sciences, the sensory experience of food consumption remains complex and influenced by various factors. Traditional consumer testing, often conducted in isolated booth environments, presents challenges in terms of construct validity and user engagement for perception formation. The growing accessibility and sophistication of virtual reality (VR) technology offer a promising avenue for research. This study focuses on the assessment of a virtual sensory laboratory, seamlessly integrating traditional sensory practices into the virtual realm to explore disparities in consumer responses, especially in sensory analysis. The virtual laboratory, designed for compatibility with VR gear, closely resembles a sensory booth. The virtual environment enables the researchers to change the visual clues of the products being tested as well as the surroundings (e.g., colors, furniture, or even the environment). Additionally, the level of immersion can be enhanced by playing any type of music, if needed. One crucial question is to assess the opinions of the participants, if they feel comfortable in the created environment. Specific participant numbers are omitted, and the study engages participants. The success of this initiative could signify a substantial advance in analysis and cost savings, adding a layer of significance to the study's potential impact on optimizing research practices. The study lays the groundwork for optimal VR practices and anticipates further exploration with immersive elements to deepen our understanding of how virtual reality influences consumer behaviour in food selection compared to traditional sensory methods.

Despite the fact that conventional haptic interfaces and rendering algorithms commonly approximate interactions with force only, the dynamic effects of even simple tasks, e.g., writing on a paper, involve both forces and torques. To extend previous algorithms as well as to investigate the effects of torque feedback on human roughness perception, we deployed a novel haptic platform with two probes, fingertip and penhandle. Three torque conditions were examined: 1) Slope Torque, which orients the probe perpendicular to the surface, 2) No Torque, where no active torque is provided by the device, and 3) Stiff Torque, where torque feedback is provided to keep the probe upright. A conventional magnitude estimation experiment was performed. The results indicated that both the torque signals and grasp type mediate human perception of virtual textures. Slope Torque led to greater perceived roughness when the fingertip was used, and the fingertip led to higher roughness ratings than the penhandle with the Slope Torque condition. The Slope Torque algorithm appears to be advantageous for generating rougher surfaces compared to the force-based algorithms which are typically limited by the system stability and actuator saturation. Z8 0

With recent advances of Virtual Reality (VR) technology, the deployment of such will dramatically increase in non-entertainment environments, such as professional education and training, manufacturing, service, or low frequency/high-risk scenarios. Clinical education is an area that especially stands to benefit from VR technology due to the complexity, high cost, and difficult logistics. The effectiveness of the deployment of VR systems in healthcare environments is subject to factors that may not be necessarily considered for devices targeting the entertainment market. In this work, we systematically compare a wide range of VR head-mounted displays (HMDs) technologies and designs by defining a new set of metrics that are 1) relevant to medical VR solutions and 2) are of paramount importance for VR-based education and training. We evaluated 10 technologies based on various criteria, including neck strain, heat development, cleanability, and colour accuracy. Other metrics such as text readability, comfort, and contrast perception were evaluated in a multi-user study on three selected technologies, namely the ones offered by Oculus Rift S, HTC Vive Pro and Samsung Odyssey+. Results indicate that the HTC Vive Pro performs best with regards to comfort, display quality and compatibility with glasses.

Humans perceive their surroundings and the world through their sensory systems. In the process of interacting with the external world, physical sensations create psychological cognitions, allowing human beings to accumulate rich "qualia experiences" and establish unique aesthetic tastes and dimensions through this process of "corporeal perception." The main objective of this study is to understand how people generate pleasures or disgusts after perceiving products and objects in their lives in terms of the needs of the "experiential economy" era and "human-centered" design principles. This study focuses on the haptic expressions of vision, sense of touch, and synesthesia. The authors explore the haptic experience and the relevant cognition from the visual association, touching by hand, and visual-touch synesthesia. This study consists of three major stages; Stage One: Delve relevant investigations such as "Material and Qualia," "Interface and Transformation," "Cognition and Dissemination Models," "Haptic Experience and Need for Touch," "Sensation and Synesthesia," and "Product Semantics" to clarify research questions and formulate hypotheses through qualitative review of the literature. Stage Two: Coordinate experiments, hold focus group discussions, design research instruments, and implement haptic experiments. Stage Three: Explore research findings and conclude the statistical analysis of quantitative research. The main results of this study are as follows: (1) Propose the semantic expression of haptic imagery; (2) Establish a process for haptic experiments; (3) Analyze the influencing factors of haptic perception in terms of qualia products.

During tool-mediated interaction with everyday objects, we experience kinesthetic forces and tactile sensations in the form of vibration and skin deformation at the fingerpad. Fingerpad skin deformation is caused by forces applied tangentially and normally to the fingerpad skin, resulting in tangential and normal skin displacement. We designed a device to convey 3-degree-of-freedom (DoF) force information to the user via skin deformation, and conducted two experiments to determine the devices effectiveness for force-feedback substitution and augmentation. For sensory substitution, participants used 1-DoF and 3-DoF skin deformation feedback to locate a feature in a 3-DoF virtual environment. Participants showed improved precision and shorter completion time when using 3-DoF compared to 1-DoF skin deformation feedback. For sensory augmentation, participants traced a path in space from an initial to a target location, while under guidance from force and/or skin deformation feedback. When force feedback was augmented with skin deformation, participants reduced their path-following error over the cases when force or skin deformation feedback are used separately. We conclude that 3-DoF skin deformation feedback is effective in substituting or augmenting force feedback. Such substitution or augmentation could be used when force feedback is unattainable or attenuated due to device limitations or system instability.

Going to a concert involves both visual and auditory senses, which have been found to influence each other in many ways. The visual design of a concert hall contributes to the visual experience of seeing a concert, and color is one of the most obvious elements of the visual design. While some studies have reported that color affects vehicle loudness, the influence of concert hall color on the auditory experience of seeing a concert has been little-studied. In this study 30 volunteers evaluated loudness, reverberance, and their visual and auditory preference for multiple virtual reality scenes of a concert hall with various colors and with a music excerpt of various levels of gain and reverberation time. Results show that color has little or no effect on loudness and reverberance compared to changing gain or reverberation time. However, color does affect visual and auditory preference, and these are positively correlated and mutually influential. Of the five colors tested, red is the most-liked color for the selected concert hall, followed by neutral, blue, and yellow, while green is the least liked color. The color preference is related to the commonly used color styles of existing halls. Crown Copyright (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

MPML3D is our first candidate of the next generation of authoring languages aimed at supporting digital content creators in providing highly appealing and highly interactive content with little effort. The language is based on our previously developed family of Multimodal Presentation Markup Languages (MPML) that broadly followed the "sequential" and "parallel" tagging structure scheme for generating pre-synchronized presentations featuring life-like characters and interactions with the user. The new markup language MPML3D deviates from this design framework and proposes a reactive model instead, which is apt to handle interaction-rich scenarios with highly realistic 3D characters. Interaction in previous versions of MPML could be handled only at the cost of considerable scripting effort due to branching. By contrast, MPML3D advocates a reactive model that allows perceptions of other characters or the user interfere with the presentation flow at any time, and thus facilitates natural and unrestricted interaction. MPML3D is designed as a powerful and flexible language that is easy-to-use by non-experts, but it is also extensible as it allows content creators to add functionality such as a narrative model by using popular scripting languages.

Objective: Create virtual acoustic environments (VAEs) with interactive dynamic rendering for applications in audiology. Design: A toolbox for creation and rendering of dynamic virtual acoustic environments (TASCAR) that allows direct user interaction was developed for application in hearing aid research and audiology. The software architecture and the simulation methods used to produce VAEs are outlined. Example environments are described and analysed. Conclusion: With the proposed software, a tool for simulation of VAEs is available. A set of VAEs rendered with the proposed software was described.

Affective processes appraise the salience of external stimuli preparing the agent for action. So far, the relationship between stimuli, affect, and action has been mainly studied in highly controlled laboratory conditions. In order to find the generalization of this relationship to social interaction, we assess the influence of the salience of social stimuli on human interaction. We constructed reality ball game in a mixed reality space where pairs of people collaborated in order to compete with an opposing team. We coupled the players with team members with varying social salience by using both physical and virtual representations of remote players (i.e., avatars). We observe that irrespective of the team composition, winners and losers display significantly different inter- and intrateam spatial behaviors. We show that subjects regulate their interpersonal distance to both virtual and physical team members in similar ways, but in proportion to the vividness of the stimulus. As an independent validation of this social salience effect, we show that this behavioral effect is also displayed in physiological correlates of arousal. In addition, we found a strong correlation between performance, physiology, and the subjective reports of the subjects. Our results show that proxemics is consistent with affective responses, confirming the existence of a social salience effect. This provides further support for the so-called law of apparent reality, and it generalizes it to the social realm, where it can be used to design more efficient social artifacts.

The rapid advancement of technology in Industry 4.0 (I4.0) led to the widespread use of cutting-edge technologies like Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR). However, with Industry 5.0 (I5.0), comes a paradigm shift that emphasizes the importance of human well-being to establish a stronger sense of connection and purpose for employees. In this endeavour, gamification has emerged as a powerful tool, showing great potential in engaging, motivating, and empowering employees. This research paper aims to investigate the potential of gamification within the workplace and addresses three main research questions. Firstly, the study explores the prevalent equipment or devices used by organizations that implement gamification, and the relationship with the success of gamification strategies. Secondly, it examines how employees' age influences their perceptions of gamification's potential and their willingness to embrace its implementation. Lastly, this research investigates the relationship between employee satisfaction - with the implemented gamification strategy - and their participation in the design process. The study adopts a survey-based methodology, gathering data from 23 participants through a convenient sampling approach. Quantitative data analysis is conducted using Microsoft Excel, while qualitative data analysis is performed using NVivo. The findings explore the interrelationships between gamification, technology usage, age, employee satisfaction, and participation in the design process, highlighting the prevalence of computers, tablets, and mobile devices as the primary tools in gamification experiences. Moreover, the study emphasizes how employees' age influences their perceptions of gamification and reveals a positive relationship between employee satisfaction and participation in the design process. These findings underscore the potential of gamification in enhancing collaboration, learning, and employee well-being, and ultimately driving organizational success in the I5.0 era. (c) 2023 The Authors. Published by ELSEVIER B.V.

The research community has long been interested in human interaction with embodied virtual characters in virtual reality (VR). At the same time, interaction with self-similar virtual characters, or virtual doppelgangers, has become a prominent topic in both VR and psychology due to the intriguing psychological effects these characters can have on people. However, studies on human interaction with self-similar virtual characters are still limited. To address this research gap, we designed and conducted a 2 (appearance: self-similar vs. non-selfsimilar appearance) x 2 (voice: self-similar vs. non-self-similar voice) within-group study (N = 25) to explore how combinations of appearance and voice factors influence participants' perception of virtual characters. During the study, we asked participants to collaborate with a virtual character in solving a VR jigsaw puzzle. After each experimental condition, we had participants complete a survey about their experiences with the virtual character. Our findings showed that 1) the virtual characters' self-similarity in appearance enhanced the sense of co-presence and perceived intelligence, but it also elicited higher eeriness; 2) the self-similar voices led to higher ratings on the characters' likability and believability; however, they also induced a more eerie sensation; and 3) we observed an interaction effect between appearance and voice factors for ratings on believability, where the virtual characters were considered more believable when their self-similarity in appearance matched that of their voices. This study provided valuable insights and comprehensive guidance for creating novel collaborative experiences with self-similar virtual characters in immersive environments. Z8 0

Patients undergoing Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) often experience anxiety and sometimes distress prior to and during scanning. Here a full MRI compatible virtual reality (VR) system is described and tested with the aim of creating a radically different experience. Potential benefits could accrue from the strong sense of immersion that can be created with VR, which could create sense experiences designed to avoid the perception of being enclosed and could also provide new modes of diversion and interaction that could make even lengthy MRI examinations much less challenging. Most current VR systems rely on head mounted displays combined with head motion tracking to achieve and maintain a visceral sense of a tangible virtual world, but this technology and approach encourages physical motion, which would be unacceptable and could be physically incompatible for MRI. The proposed VR system uses gaze tracking to control and interact with a virtual world. MRI compatible cameras are used to allow real time eye tracking and robust gaze tracking is achieved through an adaptive calibration strategy in which each successive VR interaction initiated by the subject updates the gaze estimation model. A dedicated VR framework has been developed including a rich virtual world and gaze-controlled game content. To aid in achieving immersive experiences physical sensations, including noise, vibration and proprioception associated with patient table movements, have been made congruent with the presented virtual scene. A live video link allows subject-carer interaction, projecting a supportive presence into the virtual world.

Electrotactile stimulation can be an attractive technology to restore tactile feedback in different application scenarios (e.g., virtual and augmented reality, tele-manipulation). This technology allows designing compact solutions with no mechanical elements that can integrate a high-density matrix of stimulation points. The present study introduced four novel multi-pad finger-electrode designs with different arrangements (two matrix and two circular) and shapes of active pads (producing sensation) and reference pads (ideally, no sensation produced below the pad). The electrodes were used to investigate the subjects' ability to spatially discriminate active pads within phalanges individually (6-9 pads) as well as across the full finger (18-19 pads). The tests were conducted in 12 subjects and the results showed that all designs led to high success rates when applied to the fingertip (70-81%). When tested on the full finger, the matrix and circular designs were characterized with similar performance (54-57%), and when the phalanges were analyzed individually, the spatial discrimination was best at the fingertip. Additionally, new approaches for faster amplitude calibration were proposed and tested, demonstrating that calibration duration can be reduced by approximately 40% compared to the standard approach of calibrating single pads individually. Finally, discrimination tests of dynamic tactile patterns were conducted using circular and matrix designs on the fingertip and full finger, respectively. The tests showed that the different patterns generated by the two arrangements could be clearly discriminated, especially in the case of full-finger matrix-style patterns. The present study, therefore, provides several important insights that are relevant when delivering tactile feedback to the finger using an electrotactile interface.

Recent advances in virtual reality and robotic technologies have allowed researchers to explore the mechanisms underlying bodily aspects of self-consciousness which are largely attributed to the multisensory and sensorimotor processing of bodily signals (bodily self-consciousness, BSC). One key contribution to BSC, that is, currently poorly addressed due to the lack of a wearable solution, concerns realistic collision sensations on the torso. Here, we introduce and validate a proof-of-concept prototype of the torso-worn force display, the Cogno-vest, that provides mechanical touch on the user's back in a sensorimotor perception experiment. In a first empirical study, we characterized human finger poking (N = 28). In order to match these poking characteristics and meet the wearability criteria, we used bidirectional, push-pull solenoids as a force actuator in the Cogno-vest. Subsequently, and based on an iterative design procedure, a body-conforming, unisex, torso-worn force display was prototyped. Finally, we conducted a behavioral study that investigated BSC in 25 healthy participants by introducing conflicting sensorimotor signals between their hands and torso (back). Using the final reiteration of the Cogno-vest, we successfully replicated previous findings on illusory states of BSC, characterized by presence hallucinations (PH) and passivity symptoms, and achieved higher illusion ratings compared to static conditions used in prior studies.

In this paper, an artificial creature is designed to have its own genome in which a specific personality is encoded. The genome is composed of 14 chromosomes each of which consists of three kinds of genes such as fundamental genes, internal-state-related genes, and behavior-related genes. To represent various types of personality, a large number of genes are needed. In this case, if gene values are assigned manually for the individual genome, it becomes increasingly difficult and time-consuming to generate a desired personality reliably and consistently. Considering this problem, this paper proposes an evolutionary process that generates a genome encoding a specific personality of an artificial creature. The process evolves a population of genomes such that it customizes the genome, which meets a simplified set of personality traits desired by the user. The evaluation procedure for each genome of the population is carried out in a virtual environment using a tailored perception scenario and a dedicated fitness function. An artificial creature, Rity, is developed in the virtual 3-D world created in a PC to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed process.

The Proteus effect is a phenomenon found in over 60 studies where people tend to conform behaviorally to their avatars' identity characteristics, especially in virtual reality. This study extends research on the Proteus effect to consider organization-representing avatars and misogynistic behavioral outcomes. Male participants (N = 141) in a lab experiment embodied a set of pretested avatars which varied in level of association with a university mascot (i.e., color and body type) in a bespoke virtual reality simulation designed to elicit misogynistic behavior. Namely, participants were directed to place a hand on virtual agents' body parts, including the buttocks (i.e., a transgressive misogynistic act). Time delay in complying with directions to touch the agents' buttocks served as an implicit measure of resistance to this misogynistic behavior. Results suggest that within moderately masculine body-size avatar users, those who embodied a university-color-associated avatar exhibited more misogynistic behaviors (i.e., faster buttocks-touching). Unexpectedly, this effect of avatar color was not apparent within the hypermasculine body-size avatars, and within the university-associated color condition, hypermasculine body-type was associated with less misogynistic behavior. These findings suggest that organization-representing avatars may induce behavioral conformity to implicit attitudes associated with the organization, such as misogyny.

Augmented Reality (AR) is a pillar of the transition to Industry 4.0 and smart manufacturing. It can facilitate training, maintenance, assembly, quality control, remote collaboration and other tasks. AR has the potential to revolutionize the way information is accessed, used and exchanged, extending user's perception and improving their performance. This work proposes a Pervasive AR tool, created with partners from the industry sector, to support the training of logistics operators on industrial shop floors. A Human-Centered Design (HCD) methodology was used to identify operators difficulties, challenges, and define requirements. After initial meetings with stakeholders, two distinct methods were considered to configure and visualize AR content on the shop floor: Head-Mounted Display (HMD) and Handheld Device (HHD). A first (preliminary) user study with 26 participants was conducted to collect qualitative data regarding the use of AR in logistics, from individuals with different levels of expertise. The feedback obtained was used to improve the proposed AR application. A second user study was realized, in which 10 participants used different conditions to fulfill distinct logistics tasks: C1 - paper; C2 - HMD; C3 - HHD. Results emphasize the potential of Pervasive AR in the operators' workspace, in particular for training of operators not familiar with the tasks. Condition C2 was preferred by all participants and considered more useful and efficient in supporting the operators activities on the shop floor.

PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to investigate the process by which the level of immersion in virtual reality-based behavioral simulation (VR-BS) impacts on the non-cognitive and cognitive outcomes. The cognitive outcome is measured using the increase in the level of Sharia financial literacy, while the noncognitive outcome is measured using the behavioral intention to use VR-BS.Design/methodology/approachThe method consists of two parts: First, the development of VR-BS, in the context of sharia financial literacy, using the waterfall model. Second, testing the effectiveness of VR-BS using the theory of interactive media effects framework. The participants were 142 students from three secondary schools (two Islamic religious schools and one public school) in Yogyakarta and Central Java, Indonesia. Partial least squares structural equation modeling was used for testing the hypotheses.FindingsVR-BS creates a perceived coolness and vividness, which in turn has an impact on increasing the participants' engagement. Also, the use of VR has an impact on natural mapping, which increases a user's engagement through its perceived ease of use. As predicted, the user's engagement affects VR's behavior, mediated by the user's attitude toward VR media. VR's interactivity, however, does not impact on the cognitive aspect.Research limitations/implicationsThe participants were not randomly selected, as the data were collected during the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the majority of the participants had never tried VR before this study. The participants, however, were digital natives.Practical implicationsIt is implied from the findings that Islamic financial business actors and the relevant government agencies (e.g. the Indonesian Financial Services Authority [OJK], the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology and the Ministry of Religious Affairs) should collaborate to best prepare the future generation of ummah by using VR-BS in their joint promotion and education programs. The results of the current study reveal that the use of VR-BS may attract people to engage in Islamic financial activities. By engaging in such activities, or at least engaging in real-life simulations/classes/workshops, people may gradually acquire more knowledge about Islamic finance.Originality/valueAs predicted, the user's engagement has an impact on behavior toward VR-BS, which is mediated by attitude toward VR-BS.

The challenges in developing haptic applications start as early as from capturing users' requirements stage that involves haptic sensation. It is important to capture, and translate the users' haptic experience well so that the haptic feedback integrated into the virtual environment could efficiently mimic reality similar to that in the real world. A lot of efforts have been done by researchers and developers in aiding this process but little emphasis was given to exploit the capability of sketches. Sketching has been claimed to be a powerful tool in gaining haptic characteristics perceived by users besides their verbal and written descriptions. This paper presents the relevancy of sketching in the process of capturing users' haptic experience. This is done by reviewing previous reported findings both in haptic and non-haptic domains. This was followed by two usability studies conducted to investigate the potential of sketches in capturing haptic design requirements. The result shows the extent in which sketches would significantly help developers in describing haptic, and improve the effectiveness of the end system.

The visual display transformation for virtual reality (VR) systems is typically much more complex than the standard viewing transformation discussed in the literature for conventional computer graphics. The process can be represented as a series of transformations, some of which contain parameters that must match the physical configuration of the system hardware and the user's body, Because of the number and complexity of the transformations, a systematic approach and a thorough understanding of the mathematical models involved are essential. This paper presents a complete model for the visual display transformation for a VR system; that is, the series of transformations used to map points from object coordinates to screen coordinates, Virtual objects are typically defined in an object-centered coordinate system (CS), but must be displayed using the screen-centered CSs of the two screens of a head-mounted display (HMD). This particular algorithm for the VR display computation allows multiple users to independently change position, orientation, and scale within the virtual world, allows users to pick up and move virtual objects, uses the measurements from a head tracker-to immerse the user in the virtual world, provides an adjustable eye separation for generating two stereoscopic images, uses the off-center perspective projection required by many HMDs, and compensates for the optical distortion introduced by the lenses in an HMD. The implementation of this framework as the core of the UNC VR software is described, and the values of the UNC display parameters are given. We also introduce the vector-quaternion-scalar (VQS) representation for transformations between 3D coordinate systems, which is specifically tailored to the needs of a VR system, The transformations and CSs presented comprise a complete framework for generating the computer-graphic imagery required in a typical VR system. The model presented here is deliberately abstract in order to be general purpose; thus, issues of system design and visual perception are not addressed. While the mathematical techniques involved are already well known, there are enough parameters and pitfalls that a detailed description of the entire process should be a useful tool for someone interested in implementing a VR system.

When interacting with virtual objects through haptic devices, most of the time only one hand is involved. However, the increase of computational power, along with the decrease of device costs, allow more and more the use of dual haptic devices. The field which encompasses all studies of the haptic interaction with either remote or virtual environments using both hands of the same person is referred to as bimanual haptics. It differs from the common unimanual haptic field notably due to specificities of the human bimanual haptic system, e. g., the dominance of the hands, their differences in perception and their interactions at a cognitive level. These specificities call for adapted solutions in terms of hardware and software when applying the use of two hands to computer haptics. This paper reviews the state of the art on bimanual haptics, encompassing the human factors in bimanual haptic interaction, the currently available bimanual haptic devices, the software solutions for two-handed haptic interaction, and the existing interaction techniques.

As the cornerstone of spatial geometry and engineering drawings, three-view drawing lays the necessary foundation for students to learn geography, graphics, industrial design, geographic information science, and so forth. However, teaching three-view drawing can be challenging due to its abstraction. Currently, desktop and handheld augmented reality (AR) systems are widely applied to three-view teaching. However, existing systems suffer from visuo-tactile inconsistency and contain unfriendly interactions, resulting in a poor learning experience. In this paper, head-mounted AR is introduced for the first time in the teaching of three-view drawing. A system was designed for learning three-view drawing to facilitate students' free exploration and learning in lessons. Additionally, a comparative experiment was designed and conducted to investigate whether multimodal interaction and head-mounted AR help students to better understand the relationship between concrete three-dimensional (3D) objects and abstract two-dimensional planes and the impact on subjective perceptions. The results demonstrated that the proposed system significantly improved learning performance. Furthermore, the proposed system heightened students' interest in learning, made reproducing 3D structures more intuitive, and students were more willing to use such systems in their future studies. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) has gained prominence and a growing prevalence. However, parental attitudes toward using VR for educational purposes (i.e., educational VR (EVR)) are under-researched. This study investigates parents' perceptions and experiences regarding the use of EVR, focussing on mathematics learning. Using the technology acceptance model (TAM) as a guiding framework, qualitative interviews with parents and their children from ten families (15 interviewees) were conducted. The participants interacted with a VR serious game, solving 12 mathematical problems, followed by interviews. Qualitative data analysis reveals four main factors influencing parents' acceptance of educational VR: cognitive-developmental, affective-physical, technical, and contextual/chronological aspects. The original TAM's positive factors (usefulness and ease) are validated, while this study extends the model to include new positive (e.g., interest) and negative factors (e.g., health risks) specific to VR. Novel contributions to the literature include controversial factors (e.g., preference for 2D or 3D and mental effects) and positive factors (e.g., pandemic context, parent-child perspectives, and manipulatives). These findings not only contribute to the advancement of theory in EVR acceptance, but also provide valuable information for EVR design, parental involvement in educational initiatives, and informing educators and policymakers about diverse perspectives on educational technology. Z8 0

Although researchers have explored how humans perceive the intelligence of virtual characters, few studies have focused on the ability of intelligent virtual characters to fix their mistakes. Thus, we explored the selfcorrection behavior of a virtual character with different intelligence capabilities in a within-group design (N = 23) study. For this study, we developed a virtual character that can solve a jigsaw puzzle whose selfcorrection behavior is controlled by two parameters, namely, Intelligence and Accuracy of Self-correction. Then, we integrated the virtual character into our virtual reality experience and asked participants to co-solve a jigsaw puzzle. During the study, our participants were exposed to five experimental conditions resulting from combinations of the Intelligence and Accuracy of Self-correction parameters. In each condition, we asked our participants to respond to a survey examining their perceptions of the virtual character's intelligence and awareness (private, public, and surroundings awareness) and user experiences, including trust, enjoyment, performance, frustration, and desire for future interaction. We also collected application logs, including participants' dwell gaze data, completion times, and the number of puzzle pieces they placed to co-solve the jigsaw puzzle. The results of all the survey ratings and the completion time were statistically significant. Our results indicated that higher levels of Intelligence and Accuracy of Self-correction enhanced not only our participants' perceptions of the virtual character's intelligence, awareness (private, public, and surroundings), trustworthiness, and performance but also increased their enjoyment and desire for future interaction with the virtual character while reducing their frustration and completion time. Moreover, we found that as the Intelligence and Accuracy of Self-correction increased, participants had to place fewer puzzle pieces and needed less time to complete the jigsaw puzzle. Finally, regardless of the experimental condition to which we exposed our participants, they gazed at the virtual character for more time compared to the puzzle pieces and puzzle goal in the virtual environment.

Cell injection is a common biological method used in procedures like in-vitro fertilization and targeted drug delivery. Due to very fine movements and precision required in such procedures, they are prone to failure when done manually. Human error can be reduced using the micro-robotic systems which are controlled remotely using video feed from the microscope. However, they also require training for learning of skills like hand-eye coordination, depth perception and remote handling. Training methods that require use of real cells like human oocytes have ethical concerns and they lack evaluation of an operator's skill improvement. In order to overcome these issues, this paper presents in detail a virtual reality training system for micro-robotic cell injection systems. To the best of our knowledge, no such commercial training system is currently available. With regards to training, the two most significant features of the system are its method of graduated training, having both basic exercises as well as complete procedures and its performance evaluation of the users. Another very important aspect of the system is its genericity having been built with a target to provide training for a set of commonly available micro-robotic cell injection systems. Moreover, the system is built with a modular design in mind to facilitate its reproducibility and extension.

Sound design has been a fundamental component of audiovisual storytelling in linear media. However, with recent technological developments and the shift towards non-linear and immersive media, things are rapidly changing. More sensory information is available and, at the same time, the user is gaining agency upon the narrative, being offered the possibility of navigating or making other decisions. These new characteristics of immersive environments bring new challenges to storytelling in interactive narratives and require new strategies and techniques for audiovisual narrative progression. Can technology offer an immersive environment where the user has the sensation of agency, of choice, where her actions are not mediated by evident controls but subliminally induced in a way that it is ensured that a narrative is being followed? Can sound be a subliminal element that induces attentional focus on the most relevant elements for the narrative, inducing storytelling and biasing search in an immersive non-linear audiovisual environment? Herein, we present a literature review that has been guided by this prospect. With these questions in view, we present our exploration process in finding possible answers and potential solution paths. We point out that consistency, in terms of coherency across sensory modalities and emotional matching may be a critical aspect. Finally, we consider that this review may open up new paths for experimental studies that could, in the future, provide new strategies in the practice of sound design in the context of non-linear media.

Alongside the rapid and broad uptake of online learning in higher education, fully online students report feeling isolated and disconnected from their institutions. Although formal course content may be expertly designed to engage online learners, much of the information provided to support higher education students' orientation to the institution and to study is presented online in a written static form. Such presentations may not be accessible and engaging and may contribute to feelings of disconnection. Technologies such as virtual reality (VR) are being used in higher education to engage, motivate and connect students in their learning. This paper reports on the early design stages for a VR that aims to support initial teacher education students to connect and engage with key orienting information. The design of the VR was achieved by following a user-centred, iterative engineering design process and design principles of spatiality, interaction and narrative. The VR environment emulates the School of Education's physical, on-campus reception area to provide an immersive experience where students have a choice in the types and format of key study information they receive. This experience was designed to be utilised in online orientation but also throughout students' first year of study. Future research directions include collecting student responses to the VR to inform how students can be involved in enhancing the VR so that it supports their learning and sense of connection. Furthermore, future research can aim for the expansion of the VR inclusive of additional information, rooms and buildings and increased capabilities such as gamification and mobile access. This will enable the creation of a valuable teaching resource for online programs.

Recent studies show the promise of VR in improving physical, cognitive, and emotional health of older adults. However, prior work on optimizing object selection and manipulation performance in VR was mostly conducted among younger adults. It remains unclear how older adults would perform such tasks compared to younger adults and the challenges they might face. To fill in this gap, we conducted two studies with both older and younger adults to understand their performances and user experiences of object selection and manipulation in VR respectively. Based on the results, we delineated interaction difficulties that older adults exhibited in VR and identified multiple factors, such as headset-related neck fatigue, extra head movements from out-of-view interactions, and slow spatial perceptions, that significantly decreased the motor performance of older adults. We further proposed design recommendations for improving the accessibility of direct interaction experiences in VR for older adults.

The design of augmented reality interfaces for people with mobility impairments is a novel area with great potential, as well as multiple outstanding research challenges. In this paper we present an augmented reality user interface for controlling a smart wheelchair with a head-mounted display to provide assistance for mobility restricted people. Our motivation is to reduce the cognitive requirements needed to control a smart wheelchair. A key element of our platform is the ability to control the smart wheelchair using the concepts of affordances and signifiers. In addition to the technical details of our platform, we present a baseline study by evaluating our platform through user-trials of able-bodied individuals and two different affordances: 1) Door - Go Through and 2) People - Approach. To present these affordances to the user, we evaluated fixed symbol based signifiers versus our novel dynamic signifiers in terms of ease to understand the suggested actions and its relation with the objects. Our results show a clear preference for dynamic signifiers. In addition, we show that the task load reported by participants is lower when controlling the smart wheelchair with our augmented reality user interface compared to using the joystick, which is consistent with their qualitative answers.

When navigating larger virtual environments and computer games, natural walking is often unfeasible. Here, we investigate how alternatives such as joystick- or leaning-based locomotion interfaces ("human joystick") can be enhanced by adding walking-related cues following a sensory substitution approach. Using a custom-designed foot haptics system and evaluating it in a multi-part study, we show that adding walking related auditory cues (footstep sounds), visual cues (simulating bobbing head-motions from walking), and vibrotactile cues (via vibrotactile transducers and bass-shakers under participants' feet) could all enhance participants' sensation of self-motion (vection) and involvement/presence. These benefits occurred similarly for seated joystick and standing leaning locomotion. Footstep sounds and vibrotactile cues also enhanced participants' self-reported ability to judge self-motion velocities and distances traveled. Compared to seated joystick control, standing leaning enhanced self-motion sensations. Combining standing leaning with a minimal walkingin-place procedure showed no benefits and reduced usability, though. Together, results highlight the potential of incorporating walking-related auditory, visual, and vibrotactile cues for improving user experience and self-motion perception in applications such as virtual reality, gaming, and tele-presence.

Pioneering psychology and co-design research has highlighted the potential that multi-user virtual environment (MUVE) may help architects' exploratory creativity that is a recursive search to discover an optimal match of novel and appropriate solutions. However, it has been not reported hitherto in what ways MUVE helps or obstructs architects' exploratory creativity in individual and collaborative modes of collaboration. To investigate this issue, we compared MUVE and sketching media in face-to-face and remote collaboration modes, involving 22 pairs of architecture major students. Based on interview and video-observation, we discovered that (1) in MUVE, anthropomorphic avatars, which other media do not have, enabled individual and collaborative explorations to discover unexpected affordances of new solutions, with evaluation on physical properties and layouts of solutions. In addition, (2) co-presence with collaborator's avatars enabled inspiration on new ways of problem-solving and puzzle-making through shared design processes and events, with co-evaluation on social aspects of design solutions. (3) Co-presence in a shared environment also allowed mutual co-exploration that promotes emerging creative solutions, with co-modification on design errors. As barriers of MUVE, (4) avatar's immersion caused inconvenient perception to explore large-scaled environments and track collaborators' different experiences, but the barriers were not reported in remote collaboration. Z8 1

Holographic near-eye displays are a promising technology to solve long-standing challenges in virtual and augmented reality display systems. Over the last few years, many different computer-generated holography (CGH) algorithms have been proposed that are supervised by different types of target content, such as 2.5D RGB-depth maps, 3D focal stacks, and 4D light fields. It is unclear, however, what the perceptual implications are of the choice of algorithm and target content type. In this work, we build a perceptual testbed of a full-color, high-quality holographic near-eye display. Under natural viewing conditions, we examine the effects of various CGH supervision formats and conduct user studies to assess their perceptual impacts on 3D realism. Our results indicate that CGH algorithms designed for specific viewpoints exhibit noticeable deficiencies in achieving 3D realism. In contrast, holograms incorporating parallax cues consistently outperform other formats across different viewing conditions, including the center of the eyebox. This finding is particularly interesting and suggests that the inclusion of parallax cues in CGH rendering plays a crucial role in enhancing the overall quality of the holographic experience. This work represents an initial stride towards delivering a perceptually realistic 3D experience with holographic near-eye displays.

The incompatibility between the microscale-built environment designs around mass transit stations and stakeholders' preferences causes dissatisfaction and inconvenience. The lack of a pedestrian-friendly environment, uncontrolled development patterns, traffic and parking issues make the street life vulnerable and unattractive for users, and affect the mass transit usage. How to design the streetscapes around mass transit stations to provide a user-friendly street environment is a crucial question to achieve sustainable transit-oriented development goals. To recognize the specific attributes of streetscape environment relevant in local context of BRT Lahore, this paper presents the results of a visual preference experiment in which nine attributes of built environment were systematically varied across choice sets. Multinomial logit models were set up to identify the preferences of three target groups: BRT users, commercial building users and residents at different locations. The research indicates that not only the road-related factors (bike lane and sidewalk widths, crossings facilities, street greenery) have a significant influence on people's preference but also that building heights, and the typology of buildings and housing projects around BRT corridor have shaped these preferences. When planning and designing urban design projects around mass transit projects, these significant attributes should be considered.

Augmented Reality (AR) tools have demonstrated considerable promise to enhance creative architectural design and support the retrofitting problem-solving processes through on-site daylighting visualization. AR's capacity to integrate embodied motion enhances the non-expert's understanding of the spatial characteristics and design ramifications within the built environment for complex facade design. Motion provides insights and increases the accessibility of retrofitting, encouraging more energy-efficient rework as opposed to complete building reconstruction. This study investigates the decision-making outcomes and cognitive-physical load implications of integrating a Building Information Modeling-driven AR system into the retrofitting design process and how movement is best lever-aged to understand daylighting impacts. We conducted a study with 128 non-expert participants, who were asked to choose a window facade retrofit to improve an interior space. We analyze the effects of head movement, head rotations, and eye movements to understand how embodied motion improves overall objective performance across several daylighting and energy design metrics. We found no significant difference in the overall decision-making outcome between those who used an AR tool or a conventional desktop approach and that greater eye movement in AR was related to non-experts better balancing the complicated impacts facades have on daylight, aesthetics, and energy. This study indicates future expansion of AR retrofitting tools should encourage more eye movement.

The ability to visualize data in immersive environments offers new interpretations that directly impact the outcomes of activities such as military planning, where effective decision-making is vital for mission execution. This work aims to explore the application of VR in military planning as a tool that exploits a metaphor of the sandbox, the current planning approach adding increased possibilities of visualizing training range data in 3D. To achieve this, we designed and developed a prototype that includes a virtual terrain and miniature models and provides interactions based on the sandbox concept. To evaluate the prototype, a user study was conducted with army experts performing a planning task using both conventional methods and VR. Results indicate that VR is a viable alternative with an impact on the decision-making process during military planning. Future research should focus on assessing the effects of multiple conditions with a larger group of participants and investigating additional functionalities such as spatial perception.

Augmented visualization of the mathematic and scientific data is an essential aid in training blind students' pre-calculus skills. Compared to existing multidimensional wrench-reflection interfaces, one-dimensional stylus-based interaction concept could support blind users with reasonable feedback in different tasks. We designed a mock-up of the cable-suspended haptic interface and a match game-like piece of software to investigate the perception features of the length of the virtual horizontal bar chart columns augmented with wrench and sound feedback. The performance of the eight blindfolded subjects was evaluated in terms of the number of repeated inspections to detect twin chart columns with similar length, and the task completion time required to perform the chart inspection. The experience acquired within simulated gameplay conditions with the use of implemented cable-suspended interface can be applied in developing novel didactic tools for training blind students in estimating linear dimensions of the simulated objects.

Purpose Global and local processing is part of human perceptual organisation, where global processing helps extract the "gist" of the visual information and local processing helps perceive the details. Individual differences in these two types of visual processing have been found in autism and ADHD (Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder). Virtual reality (VR) has become a more available method of research in the last few decades. No previous research has investigated perceptual differences using this technology. Design/methodology/approach The objective of the research is to threefold: (1) identify if there is association between ADHD and autistic traits and the performance on the Rey-Osterrieth complex figure (ROCF) task, (2) investigate practical effects of using VR drawing tools for research on perceptual experiences and (3) explore any perceptual differences brought out by the three-dimensional nature of the VR. The standard ROCF test was used as a baseline task to investigate the practical utility of using VR as an experimental platform. A total of 94 participants were tested. Findings Attention-to-detail, attention switching and imagination subscales of autism quotient (AQ) questionnaire were found to be predictors of organisational ROCF scores, whereas only the attention-to-detail subscale was predictive of perceptual ROCF scores. Originality/value The current study is an example of how classic psychological paradigms can be transferred into the virtual world. Further investigation of the distinct individual preferences in drawing tasks in VR could lead to a better understanding of individual differences in the processing of visuospatial information.

In the last decade, several new haptic devices have been developed, contributing to the definition of more realistic virtual environments. An overview of this topic requires a description of the various technologies employed in building such devices, and of their application domains. This survey describes the current technology underlying haptic devices, based on the concept of "wearability level". It reviews more than 90 devices newly developed and described in scientific papers published in the period 2010-2021. The reviewed devices provide either haptic illusions or novel haptic feedback for teleoperation, entertainment, training, education, guidance and notification. They are categorized into grounded, hand-held and wearable devices; the latter are further split into exoskeletons and gloves, finger-worn devices, and arm-worn devices. For the systems in each of these categories, descriptions and tables are provided that analyze their structure, including device mass and employed actuators, their applications, and other characteristics such as type of haptic feedback and tactile illusions. The survey also provides an overview of devices worn in parts of the human body other than arms and hands, and precisely haptic vests, jackets and belts, and haptic devices for head, legs and feet. Finally, the paper discusses research gaps and challenges, and potential future directions.

Neuropsychological assessment of human visual processing capabilities strongly depends on visual testing conditions including room lighting, stimuli, and viewing-distance. This limits standardization, threatens reliability, and prevents the assessment of core visual functions such as visual processing speed. Increasingly available virtual reality devices allow to address these problems. One such device is the portable, light-weight, and easy-to-use Oculus Rift. It is head-mounted and covers the entire visual field, thereby shielding and standardizing the visual stimulation. A fundamental prerequisite to use Oculus Rift for neuropsychological assessment is sufficient test-retest reliability. Here, we compare the test-retest reliabilities of Bundesen's visual processing components (visual processing speed, threshold of conscious perception, capacity of visual working memory) as measured with Oculus Rift and a standard CRT computer screen. Our results show that Oculus Rift allows to measure the processing components as reliably as the standard CRT. This means that Oculus Rift is applicable for standardized and reliable assessment and diagnosis of elementary cognitive functions in laboratory and clinical settings. Oculus Rift thus provides the opportunity to compare visual processing components between individuals and institutions and to establish statistical norm distributions.

Building Information Modeling (BIM) and Virtual reality (VR) have attracted growing attention within the architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry in recent years. Integration of BIM and VR technology can develop workflow efficiency through enhanced common understanding and prepare students in architecture and engineering programs to become leaders of the AEC industry. However, the current shortage of AEC professionals trained in BIM and VR is still a barrier to collaborative working practice in this industry. This paper reviews previous work on the BIM, VR, and BIM-into-VR in AEC education/training to bridge this gap. It also presents an advanced framework to clarify creating and using the BIM model into VR workflow in the AEC industry through the integrated definition function (IDEF0) model. The authors further evaluated the BIM-into-VR applications in literature and real-life by surveying students' learning performance in terms of eight characteristics relevant to the VR environment and students' performance within two projects, one involving the "NASA Mars Habitat Project" and the other involving the "Norris Center Project" at Northwestern University. The results confirmed that BIM-into-VR usability and efficiency in improving students' main learning performance characteristics: Learnability, Interoperability, Visualization, Real-world, Interaction, Creativity, Motivation, and Comfort. This study addresses the advantages of using BIM-into-VR in AEC programs. It also offers suggestions to AEC educators and students in implementing BIM-into-VR in different courses and creating a roadmap for their future as professionals in the AEC industry.

Funneling illusion refers to a midway perceived illusory tactile sensation between multiple distant stimulations. Since haptic illusion provides guidelines to simplify tactile interfaces, funneling illusion has been explored on different parts of human skin. This study aimed to evaluate the perceptual localization performance of vibrotactile funneling illusion on palmar side of the hand. It is based on the idea of leveraging the vibrotactile funneling illusion to produce distributed vibrotactile stimuli across the entire hand using only a few vibration actuators. By designing a glove with actuators on five fingertips and the palm heel, we measured the localization density of funneling illusion on the whole hand in two experimental conditions [one-dimensional (1D) illusion along each finger and 2D illusion on palmar plane]. The results showed that the average correct rate of location discrimination was 97%, 82%, and 71% in 3-, 4-, and 5-location densities for 1D illusion and 85%, 70%, and 58% in 11-, 16-, and 21-location densities for 2D illusion, respectively. These findings confirmed the feasibility of simulating multi-location stimuli using only a few actuators. Also, perceptual guidelines were provided for the designing of vibrotactile gloves by leveraging the entire hand funneling illusion.

To maintain safety, ensure a positive user experience, and guarantee long-term use, robots must follow the established conventions of caregivers and residents in healthcare settings. To investigate which interpersonal distance conventions are expected from robots in care facilities, caregivers' perceptions and preferred robot distances were tested in a virtual environment. With a within-design the participants' position (sitting/standing) and the robot's speed (0.3/0.8/1.4 m/s) were varied. The slower the robot moved, the shorter the preferred distance of the robot was and the more comfortable and safer caregivers felt. In addition, the robot was allowed to move closer when participants were standing, but no subjective difference was found between sitting and standing conditions. Although control variables did not influence the preferred distances, results suggest that participants' height becomes relevant at higher speed conditions. This study can be used to derive concrete proximity regulations for the use of robots in care facilities.

We examined errors in the localization of nearby virtual objects presented via see-through helmet-mounted displays as a function of viewing conditions and scene content in four experiments using a total of 38 participants. Monocular, biocular, and stereoscopic presentation of the virtual objects, accommodation (required focus), participants' age, and the position of physical surfaces were examined. Nearby physical surfaces were found to introduce localization errors that differ depending on the other experimental factors. These errors apparently arise from the occlusion of the physical background by the optically superimposed virtual objects, but they are modified by participants' accommodative competence and specific viewing conditions. The apparent physical size and transparency of the virtual objects and physical surfaces, respectively, are influenced by their relative position when superimposed. The design implications of the findings are discussed in a concluding section. Head-mounted displays of virtual objects are currently being evaluated as aids for mechanical assembly and equipment maintenance. Other applications include telesurgery, surgical planning, telerobotics, and visualization aids for robotic programming.

In recent years, a large number of research projects have focused on the use of auditory representations in a broadened scope of application scenarios. Results in such projects have shown that auditory elements can effectively complement other modalities not only in the traditional desktop computer environment but also in virtual and augmented reality, mobile platforms, and other kinds of novel computing environments. The successful use of auditory representations in this growing number of application scenarios has in turn prompted researchers to rediscover the more basic auditory representations and extend them in various directions. The goal of this article is to survey both classical auditory representations (e. g., auditory icons and earcons) and those auditory representations that have been created as extensions to earlier approaches, including speech-based sounds (e.g., spearcons and spindex representations), emotionally grounded sounds (e.g., auditory emoticons and spemoticons), and various other sound types used to provide sonifications in practical scenarios. The article concludes by outlining the latest trends in auditory interface design and providing examples of these trends.

The scientific community has been working in the field of VR for some years now, having recognized it as a very powerful human computer interface. Although many of the described technologies have been developed into more or less mature products for robots acting in the macro-world, the nano-size of the robots poses extreme challenges and requires a complete rethinking of the visual and haptic perception of nano-world. Using simulated nanoenvironments in VR, the operator can design and characterize through physical simulation the behavior of nano and bionanorobots. Adding haptic interaction, the operator can explore and prevent the problems of nano and bionano robots in their native environment. This article describes some of the emerging applications of VR currently underway in the field of bio-nanorobotics.

We hypothesized that a simulator designed to train surgical novices angled laparoscopic navigation would show an improvement in subjects' performance, a high test re-test reliability and high internal validity as measured by standardized coefficient alpha. It was also predicted that simulator performance would be strongly related to objectively assess perceptual and visuospatial ability. EndoTower has good face validity in that it mimics precisely the performance of an angled laparoscope and previous studies suggest construct validity. In this study, EndoTower is shown to be a trainer intended for laparoscopic skill than can test for inherent perceptual and visuospatial ability.

Recent advancements in crowd simulation unravel a wide range of functionalities for virtual agents, delivering highly-realistic, natural virtual crowds. Such systems are of particular importance to a variety of applications in fields such as: entertainment (e.g., movies, computer games); architectural and urban planning; and simulations for sports and training. However, providing their capabilities to untrained users necessitates the development of authoring frameworks. Authoring virtual crowds is a complex and multi-level task, varying from assuming control and assisting users to realise their creative intents, to delivering intuitive and easy to use interfaces, facilitating such control. In this paper, we present a categorisation of the authorable crowd simulation components, ranging from high-level behaviours and path-planning to local movements, as well as animation and visualisation. We provide a review of the most relevant methods in each area, emphasising the amount and nature of influence that the users have over the final result. Moreover, we discuss the currently available authoring tools (e.g., graphical user interfaces, drag-and-drop), identifying the trends of early and recent work. Finally, we suggest promising directions for future research that mainly stem from the rise of learning-based methods, and the need for a unified authoring framework.

Haptic perception is a vital part of the human experience that enriches our engagement with the world, but the ability to provide haptic information in virtual reality (VR) environments is limited. Neurostimulation-based sensory feedback has the potential to enhance the immersive experience within VR environments by supplying relevant and intuitive haptic feedback related to interactions with virtual objects. Such feedback may contribute to an increase in the sense of presence and realism in VR and may contribute to the improvement of virtual reality simulations for future VR applications. This work developed and evaluated xTouch, a neuro-haptic platform that extends the sense of touch to virtual environments. xTouch is capable of tracking a user's grasp and manipulation interactions with virtual objects and delivering haptic feedback based on the resulting grasp forces. Seven study participants received haptic feedback delivered via multi-channel transcutaneous electrical stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist to receive the haptic feedback. xTouch delivered different percept intensity profiles designed to emulate grasp forces during manipulation of objects of different sizes and compliance. The results of a virtual object classification task showed that the participants were able to use the active haptic feedback to discriminate the size and compliance of six virtual objects with success rates significantly better than the chance of guessing it correctly (63.9 & PLUSMN; 11.5%, chance = 16.7%, p < 0.001). We demonstrate that the platform can reliably convey interpretable information about the physical characteristics of virtual objects without the use of hand-mounted devices that would restrict finger mobility. Thus, by offering an immersive virtual experience, xTouch may facilitate a greater sense of belonging in virtual worlds.

First-Person View (FPV) drone is a recently developed category of drones designed for precision flying and for capturing exhilarating experiences that could not be captured before, such as navigating through tight indoor spaces and flying extremely close to subjects of interest. FPV viewing experiences, while exhilarating, typically have frequent rotations that can lead to visually induced discomfort. We present TurnAhead, which uses 3-DoF rotational haptic cues that correspond to camera rotations to improve the comfort, immersion, and enjoyment of FPV experiences. It uses headset-mounted air jets to provide ungrounded rotational forces and is the first device to support rotation around all 3 axes: yaw, pitch, and roll. We conducted a series of perception and formative studies to explore the design space of timing and intensity of haptic cues, followed by user experience evaluation, for a combined total of 44 participants (n=12, 8, 6, 18). Results showed that TurnAhead significantly improved overall comfort, immersion, and enjoyment, and was preferred by 89% of participants.

Training simulators have proven their worth in a variety of fields, from piloting to air-traffic control to nuclear power station monitoring. Designing surgical simulators, however, poses the challenge of creating trainers that effectively instill not only high-level understanding of the steps to be taken in a given situation, but also the low-level "muscle-memory" needed to perform delicate surgical procedures. It is often impossible to build an ideal simulator that perfectly mimics the haptic experience of a surgical procedure, but by focussing on the aspects of the experience that are perceptually salient we can build simulators that effectively instill learning. We propose a general method for the design of surgical simulators that augment the perceptually salient aspects of an interaction. Using this method, we can increase skill-transfer rates without requiring expensive improvements in the capability of the rendering hardware or the computational complexity of the simulation. In this paper, we present our decomposition-based method for surgical simulator design, and describe a user-study comparing the training effectiveness of a haptic-search-task simulator designed using our method versus an unaugmented simulator. The results show that perception-based task decomposition can be used to improve the design of surgical simulators that effectively impart skill by targeting perceptually significant aspects of the interaction.

Introduction Designers know that part of the appreciation of a product comes from the properties of its materials. These materials define the object's appearance and produce emotional reactions that can influence the act of purchase. Although known and observed as important, the affective level of a material remains difficult to assess. While many studies have been conducted regarding material colors, here we focus on two material properties that drive how light is reflected by the object: its metalness and smoothness. In this context, this work aims to study the influence of these properties on the induced emotional response.Method We conducted a perceptual user study in virtual reality, allowing participants to visualize and manipulate a neutral object - a mug. We generated 16 material effects by varying it metalness and smoothness characteristics. The emotional reactions produced by the 16 mugs were evaluated on a panel of 29 people using James Russel's circumplex model, for an emotional measurement through two dimensions: arousal (from low to high) and valence (from negative to positive). This scale, used here through VR users' declarative statements allowed us to order their emotional preferences between all the virtual mugs.Result Statistical results show significant positive effects of both metalness and smoothness on arousal and valence. Using image processing features, we show that this positive effect is linked to the increasing strength (i.e., sharpness and contrast) of the specular reflections induced by these material properties.Discussion The present work is the first to establish this strong relationship between specular reflections induced by material properties and aroused emotions.

Despite the importance of softness, there is no evidence of wearable haptic systems able to deliver controllable softness cues. Here, we present the Wearable Fabric Yielding Display (W-FYD), a fabric-based display for multi-cue delivery that can be worn on a user's finger and enables, for the first time, both active and passive softness exploration. It can also induce a sliding effect under the finger-pad. A given stiffness profile can be obtained by modulating the stretching state of the fabric through two motors. Furthermore, a lifting mechanism allows to put the fabric in contact with the user's finger-pad, to enable passive softness rendering. In this paper, we describe the architecture of W-FYD, and a thorough characterization of its stiffness workspace, frequency response, and softness rendering capabilities. We also computed device Just Noticeable Difference in both active and passive exploratory conditions, for linear and non-linear stiffness rendering as well as for sliding direction perception. The effect of device weight was also considered. Furthermore, performance of participants and their subjective quantitative evaluation in detecting sliding direction and softness discrimination tasks are reported. Finally, applications of W-FYD in tactile augmented reality for open palpation are discussed, opening interesting perspectives in many fields of human-machine interaction.

We propose a set of principles to facilitate the design of haptic feedback virtual environments, which is expected to contribute to the effectiveness of the fine motor hand therapy. Firstly, we conducted a contextual study in a rehabilitation center to identify preliminary design elements using grounded theory. Based on these results, we defined a set of principles aiming to aid in the design of haptic feedback virtual environments to favour therapy effectiveness and patient's safety. Secondly, in order to evaluate the proposed design principles, we developed a haptic feedback virtual environment based on them and conducted a formative evaluation with five patients and three therapists. Preliminary results provided promising evidence, indicating a high perception of usefulness, ease of use and intention of use of the proposed environment and principles. Finally, to validate the impact of the design principles in therapy effectiveness, we carried out a second study with thirty participants, from which fifteen elderly had hand motor impairments. We found no significant differences in task execution time between healthy adults and elders with hand motor impairments. We found significant differences in precision or accuracy of the exercise. We confirmed the importance of key principles to facility the design of hapto-virtual environments that contribute to the effectiveness of the fine motor hand therapy. Further evaluations are needed to validate our results from a clinical viewpoint. We confirmed the importance of key principles to contribute to the effectiveness of the fine motor hand therapy. Further evaluations are needed to validate our results from a clinical viewpoint.

Multi-server distributed virtual environment (DVE) system contains a set of servers to support a huge number of geographically distributed users. It provides a shared virtual scenario where users represented by avatars participate in and interact with each other through networks. However, there are two technical challenges in designing an efficient DVE system with this architecture: view inconsistency caused by network delays and server overloading caused by uneven distribution of users. While the first problem affects users' perception of the VE and causes user disputes, the second problem affects the system response time. We present a new partitioning framework to simultaneously address the two problems, in which the DVE scenario is divided into a set of disjoint grids called virtual cells. The virtual cells are then indexed by a region quadtree and an algorithm is proposed to search the region quadtree so as to equally partition avatars among servers. By using probabilistic models to predict each avatar's future motion and the virtual region its area of interest (AOI) will cover, a density-based method is proposed to help each server construct avatar clusters from its local avatars in parallel. By estimating the possible distances of avatar's future position to the geometry center of each cluster, an algorithm is proposed to repartition non-assigned avatars among servers so as to reduce view inconsistency and preserve workload balancing among the servers. We conducted comprehensive experiments to evaluate our method by comparing it with other approaches. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Purpose:Manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury (SCI) face challenges in wheelchair skill training (WSTr) due to the complexity of learning advanced skills and limited access to rehabilitation services. This review aims to summarize existing WSTr methods for individuals with SCI/disabilities and propose the use of Augmented Reality (AR)-enhanced Immediate Visual Feedback (ARe-IVF) learning modules for wheelie and curbing skill training.Methods:The proposed ARe-IVF learning modules will incorporate AR-enhanced visual feedback, allowing users to visualize spatial and temporal aspects of wheelchair skills and assess their performance through computer vision technology. These modules are designed to tailor the learning experience to each user's SCI level, age, gender, body height, and weight. Key features of the ARe-IVF modules include verbal cues, computer graphic indications, and AR-enhanced feedback to support skill acquisition.Results:The anticipated outcomes of the ARe-IVF modules include improved safety and effectiveness in WSTr by providing intuitive and concise guidance for key movements in wheelie and curbing maneuvers. Additionally, these modules offer an accessible alternative WSTr method for manual wheelchair users, caregivers, and rehabilitation therapists, with potential applications in Rehabilitation Centers, Hospitals, or home settings.Conclusion:The ARe-IVF learning modules present an innovative approach to WSTr for manual wheelchair users with SCI, so that the modules provide promising learning outcomes through tailored, AR-supported feedback. This approach may empower wheelchair users to develop advanced skills with increased safety and confidence, ultimately improving rehabilitation outcomes and expanding training accessibility.

Motion simulators have been of significant importance for the aviation sector in training pilots. However, the present boom in the utilization of robotics for virtual reality (VR) gaming has given rise to a new application of motion simulators. Motion cueing algorithms (MCA) play a key role in mapping the motions from a gaming scenario to the workspace of a simulator. This workspace is small (as compared to the gaming world), and on reaching the boundary, it becomes necessary to saturate the motion. Each degree of freedom, in the Cartesian space, is saturated between two fixed extremities. This hampers the perception of motion of a user enjoying the scenario. In order to address this practical problem, we make an attempt to enlarge the workspace and develop a mathematical methodology to prevent the simulator from exiting a non-cuboidal workspace. To do so, we propose sliding mode-based cueing algorithm (SMCA), which makes the simulator to slide in close proximity across the boundary of workspace. We make use of discrete-time models to present this methodology in order to ensure straightforward implementation by researchers in the future. Veracity of SMCA is testified by means of experimentation on SP7 motion simulator. The experimental results give evidence of a 57% increase in the considered sub-workspace, thereby reducing the relative necessity to saturate the motions as compared to classical MCA. This leads to a better experience of a user enjoying the VR scenario. On the other hand, the following drawbacks are reported: (1) necessity to analytically model the workspace boundary and ensuring that it is smooth with nonzero gradient, (2) SMCA parameter selection is more cumbersome than classical MCA, thereby making its utility restricted to recorded scenarios.

An increasing number of visitor attractions and monuments are designing and implementing augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) technologies and services to enhance tourists' experiences and make their visit more attractive and enjoyable. It is essential to acquire an in-depth understanding of AR/VR applications and their influence on consumers' experience. This paper set to investigate the key factors influencing tourists to adopt and use AR and VR applications by exploring the consumers' perceptions within the cultural heritage settings, focusing on the use of technological tools during the on-site experience (core service experience). This study applied the Ntheoretical basis of the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT2) and suggested a research model of twelve hypotheses. The latter was empirically investigated within the Chinese context in two cultural heritage monuments. The findings indicated that AR/VR technology plays an important role in influencing the tourism experience. Performance expectancy, price value, habit, personal innovativeness, and involvement significantly positively affect behavioral intention. The most important drivers are price value and facilitating conditions. This study's contribution is twofold: (i) theoretical, by elaborating an extended framework for digital technologies implemented in a challenging field of visitors' experience, and (ii) practical, by formulating a set of suggestions for industry practitioners as well as designers and developers of AR/VR applications regarding the effective design and implementation of AR/VR technologies in cultural heritage monuments.

Virtual-reality (VR) users and developers have informally reported that time seems to pass more quickly while playing games in VR. We refer to this phenomenon as time compression: a longer real duration is compressed into a shorter perceived experience. To investigate this effect, we created two versions of a labyrinth-like game. The versions are identical in their content and mode of control but differ in their display type: one was designed to be played in VR, and the other on a conventional monitor (CM). Participants were asked to estimate time prospectively using an interval production method. Participants played each version of the game for a perceived five-minute interval, and the actual durations of the intervals they produced were compared between display conditions. We found that in the first block, participants in the VR condition played for an average of 72.6 more seconds than participants in the CM condition before feeling that five minutes had passed. This amounts to perceived five-minute intervals in VR containing 28.5 % more actual time than perceived five-minute intervals in CM. However, the effect appeared to be reversed in the second block when participants switched display conditions, suggesting large novelty and anchoring effects, and demonstrating the importance of using between-subjects designs in interval production experiments. Overall, our results suggest that VR displays do produce a significant time compression effect. We discuss a VR-induced reduction in bodily awareness as a potential explanation for how this effect is mediated and outline some implications and suggestions for follow-up experiments.

Gamification of software engineering tasks improve developer engagement, but has been limited to mechanisms such as points and badges. We believe that a tool that provides developers an interface analogous to computer games can represent the gamification of software engineering tasks more effectively via software visualization. We introduce CityVR an interactive software visualization tool that implements the city metaphor technique using virtual reality in an immersive 3D environment medium to boost developer engagement in software comprehension tasks. We evaluated our tool with a case study based on ArgoUML. We measured engagement in terms of feelings, interaction, and time perception. We report on how our design choices relate to developer engagement. We found that developers i) felt curious, immersed, in control, excited, and challenged, ii) spent considerable interaction time navigating and selecting elements, and iii) perceived that time passed faster than in reality, and therefore were willing to spend more time using the tool to solve software engineering tasks.

In virtual reality, VR sickness resulting from continuous locomotion via controllers or joysticks is still a significant problem. In this article, we present a set of algorithms to mitigate VR sickness that dynamically modulate the user's field of view by modifying the contrast of the periphery based on movement, color, and depth. In contrast with previous work, this vision modulator is a shader that is triggered by specific motions known to cause VR sickness, such as acceleration, strafing, and linear velocity. Moreover, the algorithm is governed by delta velocity, delta angle, and average color of the view. We ran two experiments with different washout periods to investigate the effectiveness of dynamic modulation on the symptoms of VR sickness, in which we compared this approach against a baseline and pitch-black field-of-view restrictors. Our first experiment made use of a just-noticeable-sickness design, which can be useful for building experiments with a short washout period.

In this study we propose a "hand gesture + face expression" human machine interaction technique, and apply this technique to bedridden rehabilitation robot. "Hand gesture + Facial expression" interactive technology combines the input mode of gesture and facial expression perception. It involves seven basic facial expressions that can be used to determine a target selecting task, while hand gestures are used to control a cursor's location. A controlled experiment was designed and conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid technology. A series of target selecting tasks with different target widths and layouts were designed to examine the recognition accuracy of hybrid control gestures. An interactive experiment applied to a rehabilitation robot is designed to verify the feasibility of this interactive technology applied to rehabilitation robots. The experimental results show that the "hand + facial expression" interactive gesture has strong robustness, which can provide a novel guideline for designing applications in VR interfaces, and it can be applied to the rehabilitation robots.

Alternative care facilities (ACFs) based on large-space public buildings were widely used early at the start of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. However, studies have shown that the indoor spatial environment of ACFs can significantly induce mental health problems among users. Thus, this study hypothesizes that improving the visual environment in the interiors of large-space ACFs may reduce mental health problems among users. To verify this hypothesis, this study used critical analysis to screen the influencing factors and used analytic hierarchy process analysis to determine the weights. Particularly, the analyses were based on ACF research in Wuhan and questionnaire surveys of patients with experience using ACFs. Subsequently, virtual reality experiments were conducted to measure physiological indicators and subjective questionnaire collection based on the orthogonal experimental design of the four screened visual environment components. The results revealed the following related to large-space ACFs: 1) Lifestyle support was the most dominant patient requirement and preference for the visual environment. 2) The visual environment can influence the participants' efficiency of psychological stress relief, emotional regulation, and subjective perception. 3) Different design characteristics of the four visual environment components were causally related to restorative effects. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study analyzing patients' preferences and psychological needs for the visual environment of large-space ACFs and combining subjective and objective measures to investigate the restorative effects of the visual environment. Improving the quality of the visual environment in large-space ACFs presents an effective intervention for alleviating the psychological problems of admitted patients.

The objective of this study was to assess the accuracy of virtual reality (VR) technology in replicating real-life environments for the adoption of appropriate human postures and forces. Despite the widespread implementation of VR in various applications, there is a lack of research evaluating the accuracy of human postures and sensory aspects in the VR environment compared to real-life scenarios. A total of twenty-two student participants were recruited for this study, which involved a common lifting task. Two specific poses were identified as having potentially excessive forces exerted on the lower back. By comparing the angles of seven anatomical joints in both the real environment and the VR environment at each pose, we observed that depth perception may influence posture adoption in the VR setting. Moreover, the presence of a physical load applied to both hands significantly influenced the postures adopted by participants compared to those in the VR environment. These deviations in postures directly led to significant differences in predicted spinal forces exerted on the lower back, which in turn could result in inaccurate assessments of injury risks and the design of injury prevention programs. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the accuracy of VR technology as a substitute for real-life environments.

Federated Learning (FL), which has been employed to train machine learning models on the data with a distributed manner, could enhance the immersive user experience for the human-centric metaverse. However, it's challenging to train machine learning models accurately and promptly with FL for the human-centric metaverse due to massive data communication and user unreliability. User experience could be negatively affected by using low-quality machine learning models for human-centric metaverse, e.g., it cannot scrutinize and arrive at decisions accurately and timely. To resolve this pressing issue, we propose MetaFul a federated unlearning solution which reduces the negative influences of low-quality data with no data transmission by removing low-quality training models at the server side. To be specific, MetaFul includes three main components. (i) Low-throughput federated learning (LT-FL) addresses the issue of large model transmission in FL by decreasing the dimension and the number of transmitted model parameters. (ii) Loss-based model quality assessment (LM-QA) utilizes the model loss generated in LT-FL to estimate user data quality. (iii) Non-communicative federated unlearning (NC-FUL) revokes the low-quality data impact on the FL model with careful designed federated unlearning at the server side. Both LM-QA and NC-FUL have no communications with clients. Finally, extensive evaluations are conducted to show MetaFul could improve the model accuracy by at least 2.5% and decrease the user perception time by at least 19.3% in human-centric metaverse compared to benchmarks.

Haptic feedback is known to improve 3D interaction in virtual environments but current haptic interfaces remain complex and tailored to desktop interaction. In this paper, we describe an alternative approach called Elastic-Arm for incorporating haptic feedback in immersive virtual environments in a simple and cost-effective way. The Elastic-Arm is based on a body-mounted elastic armature that links the user's hand to the body and generates a progressive egocentric force when extending the arm. A variety of designs can be proposed with multiple links attached to various locations on the body in order to simulate different haptic properties and sensations such as different levels of stiffness, weight lifting, and bimanual interaction. Our passive haptic approach can be combined with various 3D interaction techniques and we illustrate the possibilities offered by the Elastic-Arm through several use cases based on well-known techniques such as the Bubble technique, redirected touching, and pseudo-haptics. A user study was conducted which showed the effectiveness of our pseudo-haptic technique as well as the general appreciation of the Elastic-Arm. We believe that the Elastic-Arm could be used in various VR applications which call for mobile haptic feedback or human-scale haptic sensations.

PurposeThe principal purpose of this study is to analyze the consumer emotions on virtual merchandising in the context of social consumption ecosystem driven by value and lifestyle across the big middle consumer segment. Design/methodology/approachThe qualitative information has been collected from 114 respondents selected through snowballing technique within the metropolitan area of Mexico City. A semi-structured research instrument was used to conduct the in-depth interviews online. FindingsThe results of the study indicate that technology-led virtual merchandising stimulates arousal and merriment among consumers, which converges the self-image congruence and appearance similarity. The subjects of the study have endorsed that visual stimulus leading to self-image and body image congruence develop consistent arousal and merriment, which lead to positive purchase intentions and buying decisions and inculcate the perception as seeing is experiencing. Research limitations/implicationsThe samples drawn for this study may also limit the possibilities of generalization of the study results and map the consumer behavior in a predetermined pattern. Practical implicationsThis study is founded on the theoretical maxims of theory of visual perceptions, cognitive theory of reasoning, theory of appearance and reality and Heider's balance theory and contributes to these theories by explaining the relationship between the social self-concept and self-image congruence. Social implicationsFirms retailing online fashion apparel should also be engaged in developing user-generated contents through communications on social media encouraging experiential videos, slogans and reviews. Originality/valueThis paper significantly contributes to theoretical and practical implications on virtual shopping, emotions and beliefs and consumption culture.

In order to improve the quality of everyday life in urban areas, it is important to properly design public spaces such as plazas and streets where urban residents spend many hours during commuting and their spare time. One of the hardest problems at the initial stage of environmental design is the verification and evaluation of the planning of environmental space before actual construction. The virtual reality (VR) technology could be one of the solutions for this kind of problem. Although several technologies have been introduced, such as head-mounted display (HMD) and PC-monitor-based VR (including web-3D)), the lack of a sense of presence, as well as interaction methods are still unresolved issues. Therefore, we are suggesting the use of a multiprojection display system with multimodal interfaces, which is our original system for virtual experience, as a potential candidate to solve the lack of presence and interaction. In this study, several experiments related to urban environmental design evaluation have been carried out. The first was about the evaluation and verification of public space design such as those of arcades and eaves above streets between high-rise buildings. The result showed that there was an emotional release from the oppressive feeling in the streets between high-rise buildings when an appropriate arcade design was adopted compared with when no arcade was adopted. The second was about human behavior in public open spaces concerning seat preference in public squares and the distribution of the surrounding people. Furthermore, we carried out several basic psychophysical experiments on human distance perception in virtual space, which revealed the compression of distance perception in VR space. In this paper, we also introduce one of the main points of this study, which is the unique and elaborate cooperative relationship between architectural and nonarchitectural departments of our university when conducting human behavior experiments using heavily computer-oriented devices. To carry out the experiments, the multiprojector display system, D-vision, which has a 180 degrees viewing angle, and the original navigation interface, Turn-table, were used to provide a high sense of presence and high-resolution images to the user.

Previous research indicates that the size of the own body affects the judgment of objects' size, depending on the amount of subjective ownership toward the body (Van der Hoort et al. in PLOS ONE 6(5):e20195,2011). We are the first to transfer this own-body-size effect into a virtual environment. In a series of three experiments, participants (N = 68) had to embody small, medium, and large avatars and judge the size of objects. Body ownership was manipulated using synchronous and asynchronous touch. We also included a new paradigm with an additional change of perspective to induce stronger ownership (Experiment 2). Additionally, we assessed whether the visibility of the body during the judgment phase influenced the results (Experiment 3). In all three experiments, we found an overestimation in a small and an underestimation in a large body compared to a medium body. However, size estimation did not depend on the degree of ownership despite clear differences in self-reported ownership. Our results show that a virtual reality scenario does not require a visuotactile manipulation of ownership in order to evoke the own-body-size effect. Our validation of the effect in a virtual setting may be helpful for the design of clinical applications.

Research has shown that people are able to judge distances accurately in full-cue, real-world environments using visually directed actions. However, in virtual environments viewed with head-mounted display (HMD) systems, there is evidence that people act as though the virtual space is smaller than intended. This is a surprising result given how well people act in real environments. The behavior in the virtual setting may be linked to distortions in the available visual cues or to a person's ability to locomote without vision. Either could result from issues related to added mass, moments of inertia, and restricted field of view in HMDs. This article describes an experiment in which distance judgments based on normal real-world and HMD viewing are compared with judgments based on real-world viewing while wearing two specialized devices. One is a mock HMD, which replicated the mass, moments of inertia, and field of view of the HMD and the other an inertial headband designed to replicate the mass and moments of inertia of the HMD, but constructed to not restrict the field of view of the observer or otherwise feel like wearing a helmet. Distance judgments using the mock HMD showed a statistically significant underestimation relative to the no restriction condition but not of a magnitude sufficient to account for all the distance compression seen in the HMD. Indicated distances with the inertial headband were not significantly smaller than those made with no restrictions.

Workforce mobility and diversity are now the reality for many businesses, requiring employers to facilitate their employees' acquisition of foreign languages (FLs). Developing communicative competencies in an FL is necessary to fulfill the demands of an international workplace. Increasingly, companies have done so with the support of commercial apps and virtual-classroom systems. An example is the language learning company Babbel, which provides corporate clients with the package 'Babbel Intensive.' This package comprises app subscription as well as virtual-classroom credits, both aiming to improve spoken competence in an FL. The present study investigated learners' perceptions of workplace communication in an FL and the impact of Babbel Intensive on their skills. Moreover, the study examined beliefs Babbel Intensive users hold about language learning, as well as the types of motivation they exhibit. We followed a sequential mixed-method research design, comprising explorative qualitative in-depth interviews with 7 users and a subsequent survey with 52 users. Our findings show that learners use the FL learned with the Babbel Intensive package for email exchanges as well as conversations with business partners. The main challenges they experience revolve around vocabulary, grammar, and speaking skills. Babbel Intensive is regarded as exerting a positive impact upon these difficulties, especially through the personalization of classes. In terms of learner beliefs, users highlight that online learning can be associated with struggle but also with personal development and flexibility. Moreover, learners are shown to have varying types of motivation, primarily categorizable as extrinsic motivation. Our findings highlight the affordances and constraints of virtual-classroom solutions to workplace communication in an FL from the point of view of the mobile and diverse workforce of international companies.

This study investigated the effects of stereopsis and head tracking on presence and performance in a desktop virtual environment. Twelve subjects viewed the virtual image of a bent wire and were required to select the correct representation of the virtual wire from one of three drawings presented on paper. After each trial, subjects completed a questionnaire designed to access their level of presence in the desktop virtual environment. The results indicated that neither stereopsis nor head tracking improved the accuracy of selecting the correct paper representation of the virtual wire. However, responses to the presence survey indicated that head tracking significantly improved the reported level of presence whereas the addition of stereopsis did not. Implications of the results for the design of desktop virtual environments are discussed.

Purpose - Due to rapid increases in theoretical progress, the paper investigated user perceptions toward tele-presence systems with possible and antecedent motivations that affect attitude and intention to use. The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach - The paper conducted an internet survey. Responses from 1,620 participants were collected and investigated to identify motivations and possible factors. Findings - The results demonstrate that attitude has the most powerful effect on intention to use. In addition, social presence and perceived usefulness have significant effects on the intention to use. The results also demonstrate the crucial roles of perceived adaptivity and system quality on attitude. The factors examined in the study may be core features of user acceptance toward tele-presence systems with significant implications for improving and creating better and friendlier tele-presence systems for users. Originality/value - This paper is of value to researchers designing and improving tele-operation and tele-presence services in the society.

Walking while engaging in distracting activities affects our perception of changes happening on the road, leading to exposure to hazardous conditions. This study aimed to evidence that pedestrians who become distracted when absorbed in their smartphones fail to maintain situational awareness. Thirty-six recruited participants performed a psychomotor vigilance task and a wayfinding task designed to simulate a multitasking scenario; meanwhile, an auditory oddball paradigm presented to participants tested their situational awareness of an external stimulus. The experiment was conducted in virtual reality (VR) environment with an omnidirectional treadmill. Participant's behavioral and electroencephalographic (EEG) responses were measured and analyzed using a newly proposed brain network measure, phase locking distance (PLD), to capture multitasking-associated couplings between brain regions. The current study supports the notion that multitasking can lead to diminished behavioral performance and changes in walking patterns. Despite the increased interregional brain connectivity, which may be an adaptive response to heightened cognitive demands, the associated reduction in event-related EEG activity suggests competition for neural resources during multitasking. Moreover, the observed EEG activities could indicate additional information processing capacity limitations and provide evidence of decreased situational awareness during multitasking, thereby increasing susceptibility to potentially hazardous situations.

Virtual reality (VR) during chemotherapy has resulted in an elapsed time compression effect, validating the attention diversion capabilities of VR. Using the framework of the pacemaker-accumulator cognitive model of time perception, this study explored the influence of age, gender, state anxiety, fatigue, and cancer diagnosis in predicting the difference between actual time elapsed during receipt of intravenous chemotherapy while immersed in a VR environment versus patient's retrospective estimates of time elapsed during this treatment. This secondary analysis from three studies yielded a pooled sample of N = 137 participants with breast, lung, or colon cancer. Each study employed a crossover design requiring two matched intravenous chemotherapy treatments, with participants randomly assigned to receive VR during one treatment. Regressions modeled the effect of demographic variables, diagnosis, and Piper Fatigue Scale and State Anxiety Inventory scores on the difference between actual and estimated time elapsed during chemotherapy with VR. In a forward regression model, three predictors (diagnosis, gender, and anxiety) explained a significant portion of the variability for altered time perception (F=5.06, p = 0.0008). Diagnosis was the strongest predictor; individuals with breast and colon cancer perceived time passed more quickly. VR is a noninvasive intervention that can make chemotherapy treatments more tolerable. Women with breast cancer are more likely and lung cancer patients less likely to experience altered time perception during VR (a possible indicator of effectiveness for this distraction intervention). Understanding factors that predict responses to interventions can help clinicians tailor coping strategies to meet each patient's needs.

Assistive Device Art derives from the integration of Assistive Technology and Art, involving the mediation of sensorimotor functions and perception from both, psychophysical methods and conceptual mechanics of sensory embodiment. This paper describes the concept of ADA and its origins by observing the phenomena that surround the aesthetics of prosthesis-related art. It also analyzes one case study, theEcholocation Headphones, relating its provenience and performance to this new conceptual and psychophysical approach of tool design. This ADA tool is designed to aid human echolocation. They facilitate the experience of sonic vision, as a way of reflecting and learning about the construct of our spatial perception.Echolocation Headphonesare a pair of opaque goggles which disable the participants vision. This device emits a focused sound beam which activates the space with directional acoustic reflection, giving the user the ability to navigate and perceive space through audition. The directional properties of parametric sound provide the participant a focal echo, similar to the focal point of vision. This study analyzes the effectiveness of this wearable sensory extension for aiding auditory spatial location in three experiments; optimal sound type and distance for object location, perceptual resolution by just noticeable difference, and goal-directed spatial navigation for open pathway detection, all conducted at the Virtual Reality Lab of the University of Tsukuba, Japan. TheEcholocation Headphoneshave been designed for a diverse participant base. They have both the potential to aid auditory spatial perception for the visually impaired and to train sighted individuals in gaining human echolocation abilities. Furthermore, this Assistive Device artwork instigates participants to contemplate on the plasticity of their sensorimotor architecture. Z8 0

This paper presents the main features and capabilities of a developed system based on augmented virtuality (AV), which is devoted to the assisted navigation of teleoperated robots. The goal is to provide users with a greater perception of the robot navigation environment that improves the accuracy in teleoperation tasks and reduces the workload required to drive. The developed system is a mixed-perspective exocentric display (ME3D) type. In order to assess the work carried out, a comparative study between the developed ME3D interface and a video-centric display (VC2D) has been conducted. To this end, we have implemented both interfaces on a real robot and performed an experiment with 16 subjects in a real scenario. As a result, we have obtained a high degree of acceptance in the use of the ME3D interface by participants.

Floor surfaces are notable for the diverse roles that they play in our negotiation of everyday environments. Haptic communication via floor surfaces could enhance or enable many computer-supported activities that involve movement on foot. In this paper, we discuss potential applications of such interfaces in everyday environments and present a haptically augmented floor component through which several interaction methods are being evaluated. We describe two approaches to the design of structured vibrotactile signals for this device. The first is centered on a musical phrase metaphor, as employed in prior work on tactile display. The second is based upon the synthesis of rhythmic patterns of virtual physical impact transients. We report on an experiment in which participants were able to identify communication units that were constructed from these signals and displayed via a floor interface at well above chance levels. The results support the feasibility of tactile information display via such interfaces and provide further indications as to how to effectively design vibrotactile signals for them.

The artistic crafting of 3D animations by designers is a complex and iterative process. While classical animation tools have brought significant improvements in creating and manipulating shapes over time, most approaches rely on classical 2D input devices to create 3D contents. With the advent of virtual reality technologies and their ability to dive the users in their 3D worlds and to precisely track devices in 6 dimensions (position and orientation), a number of VR creative tools have emerged such as Quill, AnimVR, Tvori, Tiltbrush or MasterPieceVR. While these tools provide intuitive means to directly design in the 3D space by exploiting both the 6D tracking capacity of the hand devices and the stereoscopic perception by the user, the animation capacities or such tools remain strongly limited, and often reproduce classical 2D manipulators in VR. In this work, we propose the design of smart interactive manipulators which leverage on the specificity of VR to animate poly-articulated animations. We then perform a user study to evaluate the benefits of such manipulators over traditional 2D tools for three groups of users: beginner, intermediate, and professional artists. We build on this user to discuss how smart tools (e.g. using a variety of AI techniques) can be coupled with VR technologies to improve content creation.

Like any other new technology there are lots of constraints and limitations to augmented reality that need to be considered when designing the user experience. The purpose of this article is to report the user experience of AR technology in welding education for future studies and applications. AR technology of the welding process consists of indirect vision of welding helmet, called HMDs (Head Mounted Displays) coupled with the welding torch and the portable device containing peripherals and software for the simulation of welding source, positioning system and plate with the material base. The Welding simulation training was conducted for a group of 12 students of Welding discipline of Mechanical Engineering course at the Federal University of Parana. The equipment used to conduct the study was the Soldamatic, in which we performed the welding simulations in embedded plates with augmented reality and software called "Teacher". The simulator is equipped with a mask similar and SMAW (Shielded Metal Arc Welding) identical used in the actual welding torches MIG / MAG and TIG in real situations. The results of this study can help the teacher with relevant parameters for the organization of training, as it guides as in the present case study, the need to insert a phase perception of pre-training in AR. It also suggests further studies in order to compare the performance index of learning in simulated welding environment when associated with a previous training perception of AR. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier B.V.

The effects of available visual information in the periphery (enlargement of the functional visual field) on performance in navigation were evaluated in an experimental setup searching for a "compromise" between desktop and head-immersion situations. A Fixed Vision condition (fixed display) and two Mobile Vision conditions (head-tracking with a visual field of variable width) were compared in six virtual environments of different complexity and in four successive sessions. First, a global improvement in performance throughout the sessions revealed a gradual integration of the properties of the simulation device. Second, performance was higher in the Mobile Vision conditions, as shown by the smoothness of the subjects' paths (sharp curves could be negotiated without stopping), indicating the importance of a wide functional visual field. In conclusion, the need to design realistic and functionaly efficient human-machine interfaces for navigation is discussed.

This paper presents a mixed reality teleoperation interface for mobile manipulation tasks in contamination critical production environments, where human presence is undesirable. This is achieved by using an intuitive control approach and providing the operator with a sense of depth through various visual feedback modalities. The different visual feeds from a mono- and stereoscopic multi-camera setup are displayed for the operator, in a mixed reality control room developed in Unity. The control interface employs the differentiation of the VR controller's pose, interpolated into a trajectory for the end-effector. The communication between the operator and the robot is facilitated through ROS for control commands and visual feedback. Speed of operation is typically not crucial in current use cases, while task safety, accuracy, and perception are paramount. The paper presents the latest research developments of a mixed reality interface designed and tested for a mobile manipulator. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

Hemispatial neglect is a common impairment after stroke. It is associated with poor functional and social outcomes. Therefore, an adequate intervention is imperative for the successful management of hemispatial neglect. However, the clinical use of various interventions is limited in real clinical practice. Prism adaptation therapy is one of the most evidence-based rehabilitation modalities to treat hemispatial neglect. To overcome any possible shortcoming that may occur with prism therapy, we developed a new system using immersive virtual reality and depth-sensing camera to create a virtual prism adaptation therapy (VPAT). To validate the VPAT system, we designed an experimental protocol investigating the behavioral errors and changes in cortical activation via the VPAT system. Cortical activation was measured by functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS). The experiment consisted of four phases. All four included clicking, pointing or rest applied to right-handed healthy people. Clicking versus pointing was used for investigating the cortical region related with the gross motor task, and pointing with VPAT versus pointing without VPAT was used for investigating the cortical region associated with visuospatial perception. The preliminary results from four healthy participants showed that pointing errors by the VPAT system was similar to the conventional prism adaptation therapy. Further analysis with more participants and fNIRS data, as well as a study in patients with stroke may be required. Z8 0

Pointing is a fundamental building block in human communication. While it is ubiquitous in our daily interactions within the real world, it is difficult to precisely interpret a virtual agent's pointing direction to the physical world, considering its complex and subtle gesture cues, such as the movements of the human hand and head. Fish Tank Virtual Reality (FTVR) display has the potential to provide accurate pointing cues as it creates a compelling 3D spatial effect by rendering perspective-corrected vision. In this paper, we conducted a study with pointing cues of three levels (Head-only, Hand-only, and Hand+Head) to evaluate how the head and hand gesture cues affect observers' performance in interpretation of where a virtual agent is pointing in a spherical FTVR display. The results showed that the hand gesture significantly helps people interpret the pointing both accurately and quickly for fine pointing (15 degrees), with 19.4% higher accuracy and 1.42 seconds faster than the head cue. The combination of the head and hand yielded a small improvement on the accuracy (4.4%) with even slightly longer time (0.38 seconds) compared to the hand-only cue. However, for coarse pointing (30 degrees), head cue appears to be sufficient with the accuracy of 90.2%. The result of this study provides guidelines on cues selection for designing pointing in the virtual environment.

The crystal structure is an important topic in the STEM field and the basic knowledge to determine the material structure and its behaviour. There is a wealth of literature on three-dimensional (3D) and augmented reality (AR) technology to represent 3D crystal environments to provide a new way of visualisation and to foster spatial skills. This article aimed to develop and evaluate an AR system for teaching Bravais Crystals in Natural Science, especially the potential of AR as an innovative teaching tool to encourage spatial skills. The users were satisfied with the AR system (Mean = 4.3, SD = 0.49) to learn spatial representation techniques in a cooperative learning environment. The AR system provided excitement and motivation and was attractive and flexible while allowing the students to engage in independent learning.

Even though the presence and use of mobile augmented reality (MAR) technology has become increasingly popular in the field of marketing and advertising in recent years, it has largely been neglected in the study of consumer behavior research. This paper utilizes a single-group posttest-only quasi-experimental design to investigate how the feature of mobile augmented reality application influences consumers' attitude and purchasing intention as explained by the dimensions of persuasion (i.e., consumers' cognitive, affective, and conative dimensions). Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) with SPSS and AMOS is used to analyze the psychometric survey data collected from 179 participants. The results supported the prediction that MAR application's real-time interactivity and entertainment increase cognition and affection, respectively; while irritation with MAR application decreases affection. The unsupported hypothesis, which predicted a positive relationship between informativeness and cognition, came as a surprise. The overall result of the study demonstrates the positive influence of MAR application in enhancing consumers' purchasing intention. Finally, implications and future research directions are discussed. Z8 0

Present evidence suggests that medial temporal cortices subserve allocentric representation and memory, whereas egocentric representation and memory also depends on parietal association cortices and the striatum. Virtual reality environments have a major advantage for the assessment of spatial navigation and memory formation, as computer-simulated first-person environments can simulate navigation in a large-scale space. Twenty-nine patients with amnestic MCI (aMCI) were compared with 29 healthy matched controls on two virtual reality tasks affording to learn a virtual park (allocentric memory) and a virtual maze (egocentric memory). Participants further received a neuropsychological investigation and MRI volumetry at the time of the assessment. Results indicate that aMCI patients had significantly reduced size of the hippocampus bilaterally and the right-sided precuneus and inferior parietal cortex. aMCI patients were severely impaired learning the virtual park and the virtual maze. Smaller volumes of the right-sided precuneus were related to worse performance on the virtual maze. Participants with striatal lacunar lesions committed more errors than participants without such lesions on the virtual maze but not on the virtual park. aMCI patients later converting to dementia (n = 15) had significantly smaller hippocampal size when compared with non-converters (n = 14). However, both groups did not differ on virtual reality task performance. Our study clearly demonstrates the feasibility of virtual reality technology to study spatial memory deficits of persons with aMCI. Future studies should try to design spatial virtual reality tasks being specific enough to predict conversion from MCI to dementia and conversion from normal to MCI. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 5

Dubbed the Proteus effect, research has shown that avatars influence user behavior in virtual reality and video game environments (Yee & Bailenson, 2007, 2009); however, does this same effect occur in the less dynamic but more prevalent traditional computer-mediated communication (CMC)? As CMC evolves to allow user avatars, the question of its influence increases in importance. This study examines the Proteus effect in traditional CMC, which tends to be dominated by text-based communication. Embodiment is presented as a moderator for the Proteus effect. Two methods for inducing embodiment (via choice and via familiarizing tasks) were tested along with a proposed model for the Proteus effect in social media environments. A 2 (avatar) x 2 (embodiment by choice) x 2 (embodiment by familiarizing tasks) between-subject design with 406 participants showed a significant main effect of familiarizing tasks on embodiment, an interaction effect of avatar embodiment and avatar condition on aggressive behavior, and an unpredicted main effect of embodiment on aggressive attitude.

Purpose- The purpose of this study is to measure the perception and the behavioural intention of web-users who interact with a virtual agent on a web site. The author wants to measure the added value of this technology in terms of providing e-service and measure web-users' desire to have a concrete experience with a firm after experiencing its web site.Design/methodology/approach- The author integrated a virtual agent on a restaurant's web site and conducted an online survey. The author asked respondents to interact with the virtual agent and then fill in the questionnaire. The author used the expanded version of the technology acceptance model (TAM) for measuring the intention of potential customers to accept a new technology and for evaluating the characteristics of the virtual agent. In order to measure the e-service quality, the author adapted items of WebQual to restaurant industry. As the author had several latent variables, the author used partial least squares (PLS), a variance-based structural equation modeling method.Findings- Results show that the utilitarian and hedonic values of the virtual agent increase significantly the desire of potential clients to experiment the restaurant. Hedonic value seems to play a major role. This is a crucial factor for restaurant and hotel industries which can be considered as hedonic industries.Practical implications- This research can help firms to manage relationships with current and potential clients through their web site. The nature of the company plays an important role in the success of the virtual agent's implementation. Even if in the case the author applied the virtual agent to a hedonic industry, a lot of companies in other sectors can benefit from having a virtual agent, especially if the company in question is service-oriented (e.g. bank, airline, etc.).Originality/value- According to the author's knowledge, virtual agents have never been applied to restaurant/hotel industries before. The results of this research significantly advanced the understanding of the impact of virtual agents, especially in the hospitality industry. Moreover, the author applied the TAM to the characteristics of virtual agent, which is very new for the academic world. Finally, the framework the author presented in this research could be used as a basis of measurement of virtual agent effectiveness.

Studies on computer-mediated communication often compare the affective affordances of different technologies with face-to-face communication. This study aimed to understand how three different computer-mediated communication modalities may affect EFL learners' foreign language anxiety (FLA). Using a counterbalanced 3 by 3 factorial design, 30 undergraduate Japanese university students participated in this study, completing a spot-the-difference task in three different oral synchronous computer-mediated communication modes: voice, video, and virtual reality (VR). Upon completing each task, participants responded to an FLA questionnaire and answered questions regarding their learning experiences. Finally, a post-experiment questionnaire asked participants to explicitly compare their experiences of learning within each modality. Results suggest that although all three modes were successful in reducing learner FLA, no statistically significant differences were found between mean scores. However, the results of the learner perceptions questionnaire suggested that VR was the easiest environment to communicate in, was the most fun, and the most effective environment for language learning. Participant responses to an open-ended question suggested that learner dispositions to technology as well as their affective characteristics may be responsible for differing opinions regarding the affordances of VR for language learning. The study concludes with a call for more research in the area of learner affect and technology use, including studies that more effectively utilize the technological affordances of VR, and also qualitatively assess which elements of VR may affect learner FLA and motivation.

Background. Over the past decade, the utilisation of technology in education has undergone a rapid shift, which the COVID-19 pandemic has further accelerated. Students are the end users when introducing a new tool such as virtual reality (VR). Objective. This study aimed to explore health professions students' perceptions of the use and application of VR in education. Methods. A total of 18 participants were recruited for this semi-structured study. The study used qualitative research design, employing Braun and Clarke's six-step approach to thematic analysis. The research was conducted across various departments and schools within a South African university health science faculty. Results. Although, for most participants, this was their initial encounter with VR, the experience was predominantly beneficial and enjoyable. The engaging and interactive nature of VR captivated the participants, facilitating a secure environment for learning. Furthermore, they were convinced that VR holds significant potential in anatomical and clinical education domains. Conclusion. The study results present a positive reception of VR as a valuable educational tool by offering immersive, engaging and interactive learning experiences. Despite technical and financial hurdles, the potential of VR to enhance visual comprehension, provide safe and practical training scenarios, and align with curriculum goals, particularly during inaccessible clinical settings such as the COVID-19 pandemic, showcases its promising future in education.

Depth perception is paramount for tackling real-world problems, ranging from autonomous driving to consumer applications. For the latter, depth estimation from a single image would represent the most versatile solution since a standard camera is available on almost any handheld device. Nonetheless, two main issues limit the practical deployment of monocular depth estimation methods on such devices: (i) the low reliability when deployed in the wild and (ii) the resources needed to achieve real-time performance, often not compatible with low-power embedded systems. Therefore, in this paper, we deeply investigate all these issues, showing how they are both addressable by adopting appropriate network design and training strategies. Moreover, we also outline how to map the resulting networks on handheld devices to achieve real-time performance. Our thorough evaluation highlights the ability of such fast networks to generalize well to new environments, a crucial feature required to tackle the extremely varied contexts faced in real applications. Indeed, to further support this evidence, we report experimental results concerning real-time, depth-aware augmented reality and image blurring with smartphones in the wild. Z8 0

Consistently exhibited personalities are crucial elements of realistic, engaging, and behavior-rich conversational virtual agents. Both nonverbal and verbal cues help convey these agents' unseen psychological states, contributing to our effective communication with them. We introduce a comprehensive framework to design conversational agents that express personality through non-verbal behaviors like body movement and facial expressions, as well as verbal behaviors like dialogue selection and voice transformation. We use the OCEAN personality model, which defines personality as a combination of five orthogonal factors of openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. The framework combines existing personality expression methods with novel ones such as new algorithms to convey Laban Shape and Effort qualities. We perform Amazon Mechanical Turk studies to analyze how different communication modalities influence our perception of virtual agent personalities and compare their individual and combined effects on each personality dimension. The results indicate that our personality-basedmodifications are perceived as natural, and each additional modality improves perception accuracy, with the best performance achieved when all the modalities are present. We also report some correlations for the perception of conscientiousness with neuroticism and openness with extraversion.

This paper studies the design and application of a novel visual attention model designed to compute user's gaze position automatically, i.e., without using a gaze-tracking system. The model we propose is specifically designed for real-time first-person exploration of 3D virtual environments. It is the first model adapted to this context which can compute in real time a continuous gaze point position instead of a set of 3D objects potentially observed by the user. To do so, contrary to previous models which use a mesh-based representation of visual objects, we introduce a representation based on surface-elements. Our model also simulates visual reflexes and the cognitive processes which take place in the brain such as the gaze behavior associated to first-person navigation in the virtual environment. Our visual attention model combines both bottom-up and top-down components to compute a continuous gaze point position on screen that hopefully matches the user's one. We conducted an experiment to study and compare the performance of our method with a state-of-the-art approach. Our results are found significantly better with sometimes more than 100 percent of accuracy gained. This suggests that computing a gaze point in a 3D virtual environment in real time is possible and is a valid approach, compared to object-based approaches. Finally, we expose different applications of our model when exploring virtual environments. We present different algorithms which can improve or adapt the visual feedback of virtual environments based on gaze information. We first propose a level-of-detail approach that heavily relies on multiple-texture sampling. We show that it is possible to use the gaze information of our visual attention model to increase visual quality where the user is looking, while maintaining a high-refresh rate. Second, we introduce the use of the visual attention model in three visual effects inspired by the human visual system namely: depth-of-field blur, camera motions, and dynamic luminance. All these effects are computed based on the simulated gaze of the user, and are meant to improve user's sensations in future virtual reality applications.

For doctors and other medical professionals, the human body is the focus of their daily practice. A solid understanding of how it is built up, that is, the anatomy of the human body, is essential to ensure safe medical practice. Current anatomy education takes place either using text books or via dissecting human cadavers, with text books being the most traditional way to learn anatomy due to the cost of the alternatives. However, printed media offer only a 2D perception of a part of the human body. Although dissection of human cadavers can give a more direct observation and interaction with human bodies, it is extremely costly because of the need of preserving human bodies and maintaining dissection rooms. To solve this issue, we developed VeLight, a system with which students can learn anatomy based on CT datasets using a 3D Virtual Reality display (zSpace). VeLight offers simple and intuitive interactions, and allows teachers to design their own courses using their own material. The system offers an interactive, depth-perceptive learning experience and improves the learning process. We conducted an informal user study to validate the effectiveness of VeLight. The results show that participants were able to learn and remember how to work with VeLight very quickly. All participants reported enthusiasm for the potential of VeLight in the domain of medical education.

In the recently growing field of virtual reality, the virtual grasping sensation remains in its infancy, and the discrepancy between real and virtual grasping has become a problem. This article develops a new haptic glove that presents the sensation of different types of grasping (e.g., power/precision/intermediate grasping) a compliant object. To this end, we develop an exoskeleton that fixes the movements of fingers to present a braking force and a flexible pad that reproduces a wide range of stiffness. By applying the "string jamming mechanism," our exoskeleton has functions that existing devices do not. In that, it constrains the motion of finger extension/flexion and adduction/abduction with only one actuator and presents the braking force to all surfaces of the finger. In addition, we propose a lightweight and compact variable-stiffness pad that reproduces an extensive stiffness range based on the layer jamming technique. We conducted experiments to evaluate the mechanical performance of the prototype integrating the exoskeleton and the variable-stiffness pad and demonstrated the usefulness of the proposed glove. Z8 0

Objective To report participants' experiences of trial processes and use of the Neurofenix platform for home-based rehabilitation following stroke. The platform, consisting of the NeuroBall device and Neurofenix app, is a non-immersive virtual reality tool to facilitate upper limb rehabilitation following stroke. The platform has recently been evaluated and demonstrated to be safe and effective through a non-randomised feasibility trial (RHOMBUS).Design Qualitative approach using semistructured interviews. Interviews were audio recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using the framework method.Setting Participants' homes, South-East England.Participants Purposeful sample of 18 adults (>= 18 years), minimum 12 weeks following stroke, not receiving upper limb rehabilitation prior to the RHOMBUS trial, scoring 9-25 on the Motricity Index (elbow and shoulder), with sufficient cognitive and communicative abilities to participate.Results Five themes were developed which explored both trial processes and experiences of using the platform. Factors that influenced participant's decision to take part in the trial, their perceptions of support provided during the trial and communication with the research team were found to be important contextual factors effecting participants' overall experience. Specific themes around usability and comfort of the NeuroBall device, factors motivating persistence and perceived effectiveness of the intervention were highlighted as being central to the usability and acceptability of the platform.Conclusion This study demonstrated the overall acceptability of the platform and identified areas for enhancement which have since been implemented by Neurofenix. The findings add to the developing literature on the interface between virtual reality systems and user experience.Trial registration number ISRCTN60291412.

Augmented reality (AR)-based information delivery has been attracting an increasing attention in the past few years to improve communication in human-robot teaming. In the long-term use of AR systems for collaborative human-robot perception, one of the biggest challenges is to perform place and scene matching under long-term environmental changes, such as dramatic variations in lighting, weather and vegetation across different times of the day, months, and seasons. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel representation learning approach that learns a scalable long-term representation model that can be used for place and scene matching in various long-term conditions. Our approach is formulated as a regularized optimization problem, which selects the most representative scene templates in different scenarios to construct a scalable representation of the same place that can exhibit significant long-term environment changes. Our approach adaptively learns to select a small subset of the templates to construct the representation model, based on a user-defined representativeness threshold, which makes the learned model highly scalable to the long-term variations in real-world applications. To solve the formulated optimization problem, a new algorithmic solver is designed, which is theoretically guaranteed to converge to the global optima. Experiments are conducted using two large-scale benchmark datasets, which have demonstrated the superior performance of our approach for long-term place and scene matching.

Supporting perceptual-cognitive tasks is an important part of our daily lives. We use rich, multi-sensory feedback through sight, sound, touch, smell, and taste to support better perceptual-cognitive things we do, such as sports, cooking, and searching for a location, and to increase our confidence in performing those tasks in daily life. Same with real life, the demand for perceptual-cognitive tasks exists in serious VR simulations such as surgical or safety training systems. However, in contrast to real life, VR simulations are typically limited to visual and auditory cues, while sometimes adding simple tactile feedback. This could make it difficult to make confident decisions in VR. In this paper, we investigate the effects of multi-sensory stimuli, namely visuals, audio, two types of tactile (floor vibration and wind), and smell in terms of the confidence levels on a location-matching task which requires a combination of perceptual and cognitive work inside a virtual environment. We also measured the level ofpresence when participants visited virtual places with different combinations of sensory feedback. Our results show that our multi-sensory VR system was superior to a typical VR system (vision and audio) in terms of the sense of presence and user preference. However, the subjective confidence levels were higher in the typical VR system.

Engagement is a concept of the utmost importance in human-computer interaction, not only for informing the design and implementation of interfaces, but also for enabling more sophisticated interfaces capable of adapting to users. While the notion of engagement is actively being studied in a diverse set of domains, the term has been used to refer to a number of related, but different concepts. In fact it has been referred to across different disciplines under different names and with different connotations in mind. Therefore, it can be quite difficult to understand what the meaning of engagement is and how one study relates to another one accordingly. Engagement has been studied not only in human-human, but also in human-agent interactions i.e., interactions with physical robots and embodied virtual agents. In this overview article we focus on different factors involved in engagement studies, distinguishing especially between those studies that address task and social engagement, involve children and adults, are conducted in a lab or aimed for long term interaction. We also present models for detecting engagement and for generating multimodal behaviors to show engagement. Z8 0

Recent achievements in hearing aid development, such as visually guided hearing aids, make it increasingly important to study movement behavior in everyday situations in order to develop test methods and evaluate hearing aid performance. In this work, audiovisual virtual environments (VEs) were designed for communication conditions in a living room, a lecture hall, a cafeteria, a train station, and a street environment. Movement behavior (head movement, gaze direction, and torso rotation) and electroencephalography signals were measured in these VEs in the laboratory for 22 younger normal-hearing participants and 19 older normal-hearing participants. These data establish a reference for future studies that will investigate the movement behavior of hearing-impaired listeners and hearing aid users for comparison. Questionnaires were used to evaluate the subjective experience in the VEs. A test-retest comparison showed that the measured movement behavior is reproducible and that the measures of movement behavior used in this study are reliable. Moreover, evaluation of the questionnaires indicated that the VEs are sufficiently realistic. The participants rated the experienced acoustic realism of the VEs positively, and although the rating of the experienced visual realism was lower, the participants felt to some extent present and involved in the VEs. Analysis of the movement data showed that movement behavior depends on the VE and the age of the subject and is predictable in multitalker conversations and for moving distractors. The VEs and a database of the collected data are publicly available.

Over the last decade, CSCW and HCI researchers have adopted different user-centered approaches to include older adults' perspectives in designing the next generation of emerging technologies such as virtual reality, Internet of Things technologies, and conversational voice-based AI assistants. However, a body of emerging research is showing what older adults share in such user-centered design activities might not reflect their actual needs or preference. Hence, for my dissertation I seek to go beyond what older adults simply say or do in user-centered design activities and understand the larger socio-material configurations in which older individuals and their technologies participate. To do this, I use the Entanglement HCI framework to analyze data from interviews and co-design activities with older adults focused on the topic of use and design of conversational AI assistants. In doing so, my dissertation will provide an empirical understanding of a) the different actors (human and non-human) that configure older adults' use and perception of emerging technologies, b) identify implications for designing conversation voice technologies for older adults, and c) provide a preliminary understanding of what Entanglement HCI has to offer for understanding some challenging phenomena of Aging in CSCW and HCI, and thereby provide new perspectives on how we could include older adults in designing the next generation of technologies.

Wide ranging and significant research in recent years has highlighted the need for greater levels of engagement with end users in planning and design of the built environment. This has been against a background of far reaching advances in IT technologies, which have facilitated the widespread use of computer modelling to present design ideas in non-traditional and non-technical formats. In the context of urban redesign and public participation, the research reported in this paper emerged from an observation that pre-rendered walkthroughs of designs have become commonplace, and that the effect on cognition and preference might be significant. For the particular case study area, it was notable that the arrangement and proximity of buildings was such that the site could arguably be best understood through navigation at human scale, as opposed to through the use of traditional drawings or plans. The research proceeded to investigate whether the active navigation of a desktop virtual model of an urban environment leads to better understanding and perception than passive observation of a walkthrough, and the methodology employed commonly available and widely used modelling packages to present a small townscape, navigable using controls commonly found in modem computer 'games'. The technical and study based results from this research have implications for how design ideas can be best presented to clients and other end users in the future, to ensure that design processes can be more clearly informed, and to avoid problems related to the interaction and understanding of architectural information by non-experts. The study results suggest that active navigation as opposed to passive observation does not affect choice between two versions of a model. However, benefits in terms of engagement, involvement, and a demonstrated tendency for the active condition to generate stronger perceptions and sensations suggest that use of navigable models could carry benefits in terms of engagement, thus adding benefits in terms of the user and study implementation without compromising or influencing the outcome. If it were the case that an exercise was required to establish whether participants could understand layout, or to establish how participants felt about the attractiveness of a place, or the sensations which might be felt once in a space, an ability to actively navigate a space better allows participants to feel that they had experienced a simulation of what the as-built space would be Re. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

To test and evaluate the second installment of DENTIFY, a virtual reality haptic simulator for Operative Dentistry (OD), on preclinical dental students, by focusing on user performance and self-assessment. Twenty voluntary unpaid preclinical dental students, with different background experience, were enrolled for this study. After the completion of an informed consent, a demographic questionnaire, and being introduced to the prototype (on the first testing session), three testing sessions followed (S1, S2, S3). Each session involved the following steps: (I) free experimentation; (II) task execution; S3 also included (III) completion of questionnaires associated with the experiment (total of 8 Self-Assessment Questions (SAQ)); and (IV) guided interview. As expected, drill time decreased steadily for all tasks when increasing prototype use, verified by RM ANOVA. Regarding performance metrics (Comparisons by Student's t-test and ANOVA) recorded at S3, in overall, a higher performance was verified for participants with the following characteristics: female, non-gamer, no previous VR experience and with over 2 semesters of previous experience of working on phantom models. The correlation between the participants' performance (drill time), for the four tasks, and user self-assessment evaluation, verified by Spearman's rho analysis, allowed to conclude that a higher performance was observed in students who responded that DENTIFY improved their self perception of manual force applied. Regarding the questionnaires, Spearman's rho analysis showed a positive correlation between the improvement DENTIFY inputs on conventional teaching sensed by students, also enhancing their interest in learning OD, their desire to have more simulator hours and the improvement sensed on manual dexterity. All participating students adhered well to the DENTIFY experimentation. DENTIFY allows for student self-assessment and contributes to improving student performance. Simulators with VR and haptic pens for teaching in OD should be designed as a consistent and gradual teaching strategy, allowing multiplicity of simulated scenarios, bimanual manipulation, and the possibility of real-time feedback to allow for the student's immediate self-assessment. Additionally, they should create performance reports per student to ensure self-perception/criticism of their evolution over longer periods of learning time.

Augmented Reality (AR) currently plays an important role to undertake the challenges in integrating technologies to expedite the march towards Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR 4.0). Therefore, the machining industry relies on new design concepts and methods of an innovative human-machine interaction application that overlays virtual components on a real-world environment. Nowadays, many potential applications being developed in different fields, from gaming activities to everyday life, education and industrial sectors. This paper reviews and investigates the capabilities of AR as new emerging technologies that will improvise machining operation to embrace Industry 4.0 (I4.0) for product precision, cost and maintenance. Due to the massive implementation, there are still several challenges that lie ahead include resources, facilities and etc. The I4.0 has been considered a new industrial stage in which several emerging technologies are converging to provide digital solutions. In future, AR will change the perception of people viewing the world and its objects and to help us see, hear and feel our environments in various fields. As a result, AR will support and enhance the psychomotor phase in human skills development as well as a tool of cybergogy concept for engaging learners online.

Virtual reality environments are increasingly being used to encourage individuals to exercise more regularly, including as part of treatment those with mental health or neurological disorders. The success of virtual environments likely depends on whether a sense of presence can be established, where participants become fully immersed in the virtual environment. Exposure to virtual environments is associated with physiological responses, including cortical activation changes. Whether the addition of a real exercise within a virtual environment alters sense of presence perception, or the accompanying physiological changes, is not known. In a randomized and controlled study design, moderate-intensity Exercise (i.e., self-paced cycling) and No-Exercise (i.e., automatic propulsion) trials were performed within three levels of virtual environment exposure. Each trial was 5 minutes in duration and was followed by posttrial assessments of heart rate, perceived sense of presence, EEG, and mental state. Changes in psychological strain and physical state were generally mirrored by neural activation patterns. Furthermore, these changes indicated that exercise augments the demands of virtual environment exposures and this likely contributed to an enhanced sense of presence.

Immersive Virtual Environments can provide users with a sense of spatial presence and experience. But learners with Color Vision Deficiency cannot receive information entirely in the environments because they are difficult to distinguish some or all colors. This study selects learners with red-green color blindness as the sample, and designs three kinds of barrier-free Teaching Resources based on a color scheme and color contrast to explore their impacts on spatial cognition and learning experience. The experimental results show that the Color Adjusted Teaching Resources has significant differences both in learning satisfaction and technology acceptance, and the Contrast Adjusted Teaching Resources performs an important role in improving spatial cognition and technology acceptance. In addition, the Color and Contrast Adjusted Teaching Resources is significantly different from the Color Adjusted Teaching Resources in spatial cognition. Therefore, the findings indicated that the barrier-free color scheme and higher contrast of Teaching Resources can significantly improve spatial cognition, learning satisfaction, and technology acceptance of learners with red-green color blindness. To some extent, the research results can contribute to the design of barrier-free Teaching Resources about red-green color blindness.

Human-machine interaction (HMI) refers to systems enabling communication between machines and humans. Systems for human-machine interfaces have advanced significantly in terms of materials, device design, and production methods. Energy supply units, logic circuits, sensors, and data storage units must be flexible, stretchable, undetectable, biocompatible, and self-healing to act as human-machine interfaces. This paper discusses the technologies for providing different haptic feedback of different natures. Notably, the physiological mechanisms behind touch perception are reported, along with a classification of the main haptic interfaces. Afterward, a comprehensive overview of wearable haptic interfaces is presented, comparing them in terms of cost, the number of integrated actuators and sensors, their main haptic feedback typology, and their future application. Additionally, a review of sensing systems that use haptic feedback technologies-specifically, smart gloves-is given by going through their fundamental technological specifications and key design requirements. Furthermore, useful insights related to the design of the next-generation HMI devices are reported. Lastly, a novel smart glove based on thin and conformable AlN (aluminum nitride) piezoelectric sensors is demonstrated. Specifically, the device acquires and processes the signal from the piezo sensors to classify performed gestures through an onboard machine learning (ML) algorithm. Then, the design and testing of the electronic conditioning section of AlN-based sensors integrated into the smart glove are shown. Finally, the architecture of a wearable visual-tactile recognition system is presented, combining visual data acquired by a micro-camera mounted on the user's glass with the haptic ones provided by the piezoelectric sensors.

To investigate the effects of visual discomfort caused by long-term immersing in virtual environments (VEs), we conducted a comparative study to evaluate users' visual discomfort in an eight-hour working rhythm and compared the differences between the VEs and the physical environments. Twenty-seven participants performed four different visual tasks with a head-mounted display (HMD) for the VE condition and with a monitor for the physical condition. Their subjective visual discomfort and objective oculomotor indicators were measured to evaluate their visual performances. The results show that the subjective visual fatigue symptoms, the objective pupil size, and the relative accommodation response vary across time for the two conditions, in which VEs affects visual fatigue the most compared to the physical environments. The results also show that pupil size is negatively related to subjective visual fatigue, and the long-term work based on displays only influences the maximum accommodation response of participants. This work is a supplement to the necessary but insufficient-researched field of visual fatigue in long-term immersing in VEs, which should be valuable to researchers involved in the evaluation of visual fatigue using HMDs.

With the rapidly increasing penetration of touchscreens in various application sectors, more sophisticated and configurable haptic effects can be rendered on touchscreens (e.g., buttons). In this paper, we presented a design process to instantiate a wide range of vibrotactile stimuli for rendering various virtual buttons on touchscreens. We study the perceived depth and roughness of rendered virtual buttons. There are two stages: the design of the drive signals and the main study. We generated and screened drive signals to render vibrotactile stimuli for virtual buttons through varying envelope shapes, superposition methods, compound waveform composition (CWC) types, durations, and frequencies. The results show that the perceived depth of virtual buttons can be very deep, and the perceived roughness can be very rough around the resonant frequency. Perceived depth and roughness decrease when the frequency increases or decreases from the resonant frequency. A longer duration of vibrotactile stimuli and adding pulse numbers could increase the perceived depth and roughness. Perceived depth and roughness have a similar trend with varying frequencies at a fixed duration.

The increasing number of autonomous vehicles has raised questions regarding pedestrian interaction with autonomous vehicles. Researchers have studied external interfaces designed for vehicle operators and other road-users (e.g., pedestrians). Most past studies have considered the interaction between pedestrians and autonomous vehicles with no visible operator. However, pedestrian-autonomous vehicle interaction may be complicated when there is a human sitting in the conventional driver's seat of an autonomous vehicle. Such a scenario may cause some pedestrians to look to the passenger for cues when they should be looking for cues from the vehicle. The objective of the current study was to investigate pedestrians' perspective of autonomous vehicles based on the interaction effect between passenger status and external features on the vehicle. Sixteen pedestrians completed a VR experiment. The results provided important insight into the important question of pedestrian-autonomous vehicle interaction when passengers are present in the driver seat of the vehicle.

Soft and integrated design can enable wearable haptic devices to augment natural human taction. This paper proposes a novel, soft, haptic finger-worn wearable device based on compliant and adhesive silicone skin and lightweight twisted and coiled polymer (TCP) actuators using ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) fibers to provide lateral skin stretch sensations. Recently, silicone elastomers have been used in wearable sensors and in haptic applications for their high compliance or adhesion. TCP actuators have also demonstrated high power to weight ratios, large stroke length, simple mechanism, and inherent softness. Lateral skin stretch is sensitive to small motions and has been used for intuitive proprioceptive feedback applications. We combined these characteristics to design and manufacture a wearable, functional haptic prototype. Prototype performance was evaluated using an optical tracking system, a force gauge test bench, and compared to vibrotactile haptic feedback in a experiment with 14 healthy participants. Results showed that participant mean reaction times were comparable to those of a vibrotactile feedback system, though task completion times were longer. This paper is the first to employ TCP actuators for haptic stimulation and could serve as a foundation for future applications involving soft wearable haptics in gaming, health, and virtual reality.

Battery life is an increasingly urgent challenge for today's untethered VR and AR devices. However, the power efficiency of head-mounted displays is naturally at odds with growing computational requirements driven by better resolution, refresh rate, and dynamic ranges, all of which reduce the sustained usage time of untethered AR/VR devices. For instance, the Oculus Quest 2, under a fully-charged battery, can sustain only 2 to 3 hours of operation time. Prior display power reduction techniques mostly target smartphone displays. Directly applying smartphone display power reduction techniques, however, degrades the visual perception in AR/VR with noticeable artifacts. For instance, the "power-saving mode" on smartphones uniformly lowers the pixel luminance across the display and, as a result, presents an overall darkened visual perception to users if directly applied to VR content. Our key insight is that VR display power reduction must be cognizant of the gaze-contingent nature of high field-of-view VR displays. To that end, we present a gaze-contingent system that, without degrading luminance, minimizes the display power consumption while preserving high visual fidelity when users actively view immersive video sequences. This is enabled by constructing 1) a gaze-contingent color discrimination model through psychophysical studies, and 2) a display power model (with respect to pixel color) through real-device measurements. Critically, due to the careful design decisions made in constructing the two models, our algorithm is cast as a constrained optimization problem with a closed-form solution, which can be implemented as a real-time, image-space shader. We evaluate our system using a series of psychophysical studies and large-scale analyses on natural images. Experiment results show that our system reduces the display power by as much as 24% (14% on average) with little to no perceptual fidelity degradation.

The use of embodied conversational agents in mental health has increased in the last years. Several studies exist describing the benefits and advantages of this technology as a complement to psychotherapeutic interventions for the prevention and treatment of depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder, to name a few. A small number of these works implement capabilities in the virtual agent focused on the detection and prevention of suicidality risks. The work presented in this paper describes the development of an embodied conversational agent used as the main interface in HelPath, a mobile-based application addressed to individuals detected with any of the suicidal behaviours: ideation, planning or attempt. The main objective of HelPath is to continuously collect user's information that, complemented with data from the electronic health record, supports the identification of risks associated with suicidality. Through the virtual agent, the users also receive information and suggestions based on cognitive behaviour therapy that would help them to maintain a healthy condition. The paper also presents the execution of an exploratory pilot to assess the acceptability, perception and adherence of users towards the virtual agent. The obtained results are presented and discussed, and some actions for further improvement of the embodied conversational agent are also identified.

Spatial perspective taking is an everyday cognitive process that is involved in predicting the outcome of goal directed behavior We used dynamic virtual stimuli and fMRI to investigate at the neural level whether motion perception interacts with spatial perspective taking in a life-like design Subjects were asked to perform right-left-decisions about the position of either a motionless, hovering (STATIC) or a flying ball (DYNamic), either from their own (I PP) or from the perspective of a virtual character (avatar, 3PP) Our results showed a significant interaction of STIMULUS TYPE and PERSPECTIVE with significantly increased activation in right posterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS) for 1PPDYN condition As the IPS is critically involved in the computation of object-directed action preparation, we suppose that the simple perception of potentially action-relevant dynamic objects induces a 'readiness for (re)action', restricted to the 1PP. Results are discussed against the background of current theories on embodiment and enactive perception (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved Z8 0

Acceptance of prosthetic vision will be heavily dependent on the ability of recipients to form useful information from such vision. Training strategies to accelerate learning and maximize visual comprehension would need to be designed in the light of the factors affecting human learning under prosthetic vision. Some of these potential factors were examined in a visual acuity study using the Landolt C optotype under virtual-reality simulation of prosthetic vision. Fifteen normally sighted subjects were tested for 10-20 sessions. Potential learning factors were tested at p < 0.05 with regression models. Learning was most evident across-sessions, though 17 % of sessions did express significant within-session trends. Learning was highly concentrated toward a critical range of optotype sizes, and subjects were less capable in identifying the closed optotype (a Landolt C with no gap, forming a closed annulus). T raining for implant recipients should target these critical sizes and the closed optotype to extend the limit of visual comprehension. Although there was no evidence that image processing affected overall learning, subjects showed varying personal preferences.

Aims To examine perceptions of extended-release (XR) buprenorphine injections among people who regularly use opioids in Australia. Design Cross-sectional survey prior to implementation. XR-buprenorphine was registered in Australia in November 2018. Setting Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart. Participants A total of 402 people who regularly use opioids interviewed December 2017 to March 2018. Measurements Primary outcome concerned the proportion of participants who believed XR-buprenorphine would be a good treatment option for them, preferred weekly versus monthly injections and perceived advantages/disadvantages of XR-buprenorphine. Independent variables concerned the demographic characteristics and features of current opioid agonist treatment (OAT; medication-type, dose, prescriber/dosing setting, unsupervised doses, out-of-pocket expenses and travel distance). Findings Sixty-eight per cent [95% confidence interval (CI) = 63-73%] believed XR-buprenorphine was a good treatment option for them. They were more likely to report being younger [26-35 versus > 55 years; odds ratio (OR) = 3.16, 95% CI = 1.12-8.89; P = 0.029], being female (OR = 1.67, 95% CI = 1.04-2.69; P = 0.034), < 10 years school education (OR = 1.87, 95% CI = 1.12-3.12; P = 0.016) and past-month heroin (OR = 1.81, 95% CI = 1.15-2.85; P = 0.006) and methamphetamine use (OR = 1.90, 95% CI = 1.20-3.01; P = 0.006). Fifty-four per cent reported no preference for weekly versus monthly injections, 7% preferred weekly and 39% preferred monthly. Among OAT recipients (n = 255), believing XR-buprenorphine was a good treatment option was associated with shorter treatment episodes (1-2 versus >= 2 years; OR = 3.93, 95% CI = 1.26-12.22; P = 0.018), fewer unsupervised doses (<= 8 doses past-month versus no take-aways; OR = 0.50; 95% CI = 0.27-0.93; P = 0.028) and longer travel distance (>= 5 versus < 5 km; OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.20-3.65; P = 0.009). Sixty-nine per cent reported 'no problems or concerns' with potential differences in availability, flexibility and location of XR-buprenorphine. Conclusions Among regular opioid users in Australia, perceptions of extended-release buprenorphine as a good treatment option are associated with being female, recent illicit drug use and factors relating to the (in)convenience of current opioid agonist treatment.

A new auditory orientation training system was developed for blind people using acoustic virtual reality (VR) based on a head-related transfer function (HRTF) simulation. The present training system can reproduce a virtual training environment for orientation and mobility (O&M) instruction, and the trainee can walk through the virtual training environment safely by listening to sounds such as vehicles, stores, ambient noise, etc.,three-dimensionally through headphones. The system can reproduce not only sound sources but also sound reflection and insulation, so that the trainee can learn both sound location and obstacle perception skills. The virtual training environment is described in extensible markup language (XML), and the O&M instructor can edit it easily according to the training curriculum. Evaluation experiments were conducted to test the efficiency of some features of the system. Thirty subjects who had not acquired O&M skills attended the experiments. The subjects were separated into three groups: a no-training group, a virtual-training group using the present system, and a real-training group in real environments. The results suggested that virtual-training can reduce "veering" more than real-training and also can reduce stress as much as real training. The subjective technical and anxiety scores also improved.

PurposeOne suggested advantage of human binocular vision is the facilitation of sophisticated motor control behaviours via stereopsis - but little empirical evidence exists to support this suggestion. We examined the functional significance of stereopsis by exploring whether stereopsis is used to perform a highly skilled real-world motor task essential for the occupational practice of dentistry. MethodsWe used a high fidelity virtual reality simulator to study how dentists' performance is affected by the removal of horizontal retinal image disparities under direct and indirect (mirror) observation. Thirteen qualified dentists performed a total of four different dental tasks under non-stereoscopic and stereoscopic vision conditions, with two levels of task complexity (direct and indirect observation) using a virtual reality dental simulator. ResultsDepth related errors were significantly higher under non-stereoscopic viewing but lateral errors did not differ between conditions. Indirect observation led to participants drilling less of the target area compared to direct viewing, but this did not interact with the stereopsis manipulation. ConclusionsThe data confirm that dental practitioners use stereopsis and its presence results in improved dental performance. It remains to be determined whether individuals with stereo-deficits can compensate adequately. Nevertheless, these findings suggest an important role for stereopsis within at least one occupation and justify the design of simulators with 3D displays.

Recent advances in haptic interfaces support a range of options in adding sensations of touch to virtual and augmented reality experiences. A fundamental understanding of the mechanics associated with coupling between vibro-tactile actuators and the skin is important in considering device designs and interpreting sensory perceptions. Here, we investigate vibrational dynamics induced by the three main classes of such actuators in bilayer elastomer structures that capture essential mechanical properties of human skin. The measurements rely on three dimensional digital image correlation methods, with corresponding simulations based on finite element analysis techniques. Studies examine the effects of key parameters relevant to the mechanics and resulting sensations, such as those related to contact area, actuation amplitude and spatio-temporal distributions of displacements in terms of both surface and body waves. Results reveal that tactor type actuators operate in a power efficient mode to produce deformations largely oriented out of the plane of the skin, for robust sensations that can, however, depend strongly on mounting strategy. Actuators based on eccentric rotating motors yield deformations with similar magnitudes but with substantial in-plane components and reduced sensations. Key attractive features of these actuators are in small, lightweight designs that facilitate mounting on the skin and deployment into large arrays. A third type of device, linear resonant actuators, produce the weakest sensations and the lowest power efficiencies, with limited potential for practical applications. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Despite recent technological advances, convincing self-motion simulation in Virtual Reality (VR) is difficult to achieve, and users often suffer from motion sickness and/or disorientation in the simulated world. Instead of trying to simulate self-motions with physical realism (as is often done for, e.g., driving or flight simulators), we propose in this paper a Perceptually oriented approach towards self-motion simulation. Following this paradigm, we performed a series of psychophysical experiments to determine essential visual, auditory. and vestibular/tactile parameters for an effective and perceptually convincing self-motion simulation. These studies are a first step towards Our overall goal of achieving lean and elegant self-motion simulation in Virtual Reality (VR) without physically moving, the observer. In a series of psychophysical experiments about the self-motion illusion (circular vection), we found that (i) vection as well as presence in the simulated environment is increased by a consistent, naturalistic visual scene when compared to a sliced, inconsistent version of the identical scene, (ii) barely noticeable marks on the projection screen can increase vection as well as presence in an unobtrusive manner, (iii) physical vibrations of the observer's seat can enhance the vection illusion, and (iv) spatialized 3D audio Cues embedded in the simulated environment increase the sensation of self-motion and presence. We Conclude that providing consistent cues about self-motion to Multiple sensory modalities can enhance vection, even if physical motion Cues are absent. These results yield important implications for the design of lean and elegant self-motion simulators.

Understanding real walking in virtual environments (VEs) is important for immersive experiences, allowing users to move through VEs in the most natural way. Previous studies have shown that basic implementations of real walking in virtual spaces, in which head-tracked movements are mapped isometrically to a VE, are not estimated as entirely natural. Instead, users estimate a virtual walking velocity as more natural when it is slightly increased compared to the user's physical locomotion. However, these findings have been reported in most cases only for young persons, e.g., students, whereas older adults are clearly underrepresented in such studies. Recently, virtual reality (VR) has received significant public and media attention. Therefore, it appears reasonable to assume that people at different ages will have access to VR, and might use this technology more and more in application scenarios such as rehabilitation or training. To better understand how people at different ages walk and perceive locomotion in VR, we have performed a study to investigate the effects of (non-)isometric mappings between physical movements and virtual motions in the VE on the walking biomechanics across generations, i.e., younger and older adults. Three primary domains (pace, base of support and phase) of spatio-temporal parameters were identified to evaluate gait performance. The results show that the older adults walked very similar in the real and VE in the pace and phasic domains, which differs from results found in younger adults. In contrast, the results indicate differences in terms of base of support domain parameters for both groups while walking within a VE and the real world. For non- isometric mappings, we found in both younger and older adults an increased divergence of gait parameters in all domains correlating with the up or down-scaled velocity of visual self-motion feedback. The results provide important insights into the design of future VR applications for older adults in domains ranging from medicine and psychology to rehabilitation.

In response to the rapid growth of mobile Internet, online retailers have created better shopping experiences through new technologies. These shopping experiences are the product of the new interaction methods created by new technologies and the intrinsic value of these technologies. To achieve a better understanding of how new technologies improve consumers' intention to use them continuously, this study established a theoretical model of how consumers' perceived interactivity affects intrinsic value, which then affects attitudes, and ultimately contributes to the theoretical model. Within the perceived interactivity construct, there is perceived control, personalization and responsiveness, and as part of the intrinsic value construct there is playfulness and aesthetics. The results demonstrate that intrinsic value and perceived interactivity play important roles in predicting consumers' attitudes and continuance intention to use new technologies applied to mobile e-commerce, but do not include perceived control in perceived interactivity. To highlight the results of this study, relevant enterprises or practitioners may use the findings to design or improve the features of existing mobile apps to provide better services and experiences to consumers based on their internal perceptions.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of multimodal feedback on ergonomic measurements in a virtual environment (VE) for a typical simulated drilling task. In total, sixty male manufacturing industry workers were divided into five groups. One group performed the working task in a real environment (RE), and ergonomic measurements for this group were used as the baseline for evaluation. The other four groups performed the same task in a virtual environment with different feedback treatments (visual with or without auditory and/or tactile feedback). Five indices task completion time, maximum force capacity reduction, body part discomfort, rated perceived exertion, and rated task difficulty were used to evaluate the measurements of each of the four treatments in VE in comparison to the baseline group in RE. The results indicate that the five indices for each of the four treatment groups were significantly higher than those of the RE group. Moreover, the indices of the visual-only group were significantly higher than those of the other three groups with auditory and/or tactile feedback treatments. The findings of this study can provide a guideline for ergonomic evaluations of work designs in VE and for establishing a virtual reality simulation system. (c) 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Z8 0

The development of technology and the recent Covid-19 has moved a substantial part of education into online environments, and video-based learning has become a common format of online learning. An alternative to enhance the co-learning experience in video-based online learning is to make use of immersive virtual reality (VR) technology. The current study focused on how to build a sense of being together in an immersive VR classroom for video-based learning, when individual learners can schedule and pace their learning on their own. Two alternative in-class interaction mechanisms for video-based learning were proposed (i.e., real-time interaction and timeline-anchored interaction). The impact of in-class interaction design was investigated, together with the impact of different styles of visual embodiment of learners (i.e., realistic and cartoon-styled), through a laboratory experiment involving 48 participants, and the influences on learners' immersion in a VR classroom, identification with the avatars, perceived social presence of peer learners, and learning outcomes were analyzed. The results showed that enabling in-class interaction with peer learners in VR classrooms enhances immersion in the learning environment and their identification of peer avatars, as well as helping learners to develop a stronger co-presence and more intimate perception of peers. Whereas real-time interaction improves perceived social presence the most, the reduced learning outcome suggests that it may distract learners from the video. The timeline-anchored interaction, on the other hand, improves social presence at no cost of learning performance. Appearance style, however, has no significant influence on learning experiences and outcomes.

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the extent to which presence, media richness, and narrative experiences yield the highest experiential value in augmented-reality interactive technology (ARIT). Design/methodology/approach - A survey is performed to collect data. Valid questionnaires of 344 ARIT users are identified. The hypothesized associations are analyzed using structure equation modeling. Findings - Empirical results indicate that narrative experience induces a higher experiential value than other simulative experiences, including presence and media richness. Practical implications - Results of this study provide a valuable reference for managers attempting to design an ARIT process in order to optimize the experiential value in various online simulation environments. Originality/value - This study adopts an integrated framework that incorporates narrative theory, media richness theory, and presence in the online ARIT. Exactly how narrative experience, media richness, and presence affect the formation of experiential value in the ARIT process is explored as well.

Nowadays, with recent advances in virtual reality technology, it is easily possible to integrate real objects into virtual environments by creating an exact virtual replication and enabling interaction with them by mapping the obtained tracking data of the real to the virtual objects. The primary goal of our study is to develop a system to investigate distance differences for near-field interaction in immersive virtual environments. In this context, the term distance difference refers to the shift between a real object and the respective replication of the real object in the virtual environment of the same size. This could occur for a number of reasons e.g. due to errors in motion tracking or mistakes in designing the virtual environment. Our virtual environment is developed using the Unity3D game engine, while the immersive contents were displayed on an HTC Vive Pro head-mounted display. The virtual room shown to the user includes a replication of the real testing lab environment, while one of the two real objects is tracked and mirrored to the virtual world using an HTC Vive Tracker. Both objects are present in the real as well as in the virtual world. To find perceivable distance differences in the near-field, the actual task in the subjective test was to pick up one object and place it into another object. The position of the static object in the virtual world is shifted by values between 0 and 4 cm, while the position of the real object is kept constant. The system is evaluated by conducting a subjective proof-of-concept test with 18 test subjects. The distance difference is evaluated by the subjects through estimating perceived confusion on a modified 5-point absolute category rating scale. The study provides quantitative insights into allowable real-world vs. virtual-world mismatch boundaries for near-field interactions, with a threshold value of around 1 cm.

Vision-based augmented reality is a new kind of visual application technology, which transfers synthetic sensory information into a user's perception of a real environment. It is perceived by human senses. However, the existing visual enhancement equipment has single function, limited processing capacity and poor interaction. To overcome these shortcomings, we designed a visual enhancement system that integrates cloud computing, AR technology and deep learning. First, small, remote and wireless cameras are used to obtain image data, which need to be uploaded to a cloud. Then, the method of deep learning and feature matching is adopted to carry out facial consistency analysis, which improves the robustness of target detection. And stable target tracking is achieved by time sequence state filtering. Finally, the information of image analysis and processing is transmitted back to the AR device, so the prompts of target text and voice are given for intelligent auxiliary decision-making in time.

Assistive technology uses multi-modal feedback devices, focusing on the visual, auditory, and haptic modalities. Tactile devices provide additional information via touch sense. Perception accuracy of vibrations depends on the spectral and temporal attributes of the signal, as well as on the body parts they are attached to. The widespread use of AR/VR devices, wearables, and gaming interfaces requires information about the usability of feedback devices. This paper presents results of an experiment using an 8-channel tactile feedback system with vibrators placed on the wrists, arms, ankles, and forehead. Different vibration patterns were designed and presented using sinusoidal frequency bursts on 2, 4, and 8 channels. In total, 27 subjects reported their sensation formally and informally on questionnaires. Results indicate that 2 and 4 channels could be used simultaneously with high accuracy, and the transducers' optimal placement (best sensitivity) is on the wrists, followed by the ankles. Arm and head positions were inferior and generally inadequate for signal presentation. For optimal performance, signal length should exceed 500 ms. Furthermore, the amplitude level and temporal pattern of the presented signals have to be used for carrying information rather than the frequency of the vibration.

Augmented Reality (AR) is an emerging technology that is gaining greater influence on teaching every day. AR, together with mobile technology, is defined as one of the most efficient pairs for supporting significant and ubiquitous learning. Purpose of the study: the Instructional Material Motivational Survey (IMMS), by Keller, was used to determine the degree of motivation possessed by the Pedagogy students on the utilization of the notes enriched with AR in the classroom, available for their didactic use through mobile devices. Methods: through an app designed for the courses Education Technology (ET) and Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Applied to Education, the motivation gained when participating in this experience, and how it influences the improvement of academic performance, was evaluated. Results and conclusions: the most notable main result was finding a strong relationship between the motivation of the students when using the enriched notes and the increase of performance in the academic subject where it was used. Likewise, it was proved that the use of Augmented Reality benefited the learning process itself.

Thermal perception is important in the experience of touching real objects, and thermal display devices are of growing interest for applications in virtual reality, medicine, and wearable technologies. In this paper, we designed a new thermal display, and investigated the perception of spatially varying thermal stimuli, including the thermal grill illusion. The latter is a perceptual effect in which a burning sensation is elicited in response to touching a surface composed of spatially juxtaposed warm and cool areas. Using a computer controlled thermal display, we present experiments in which we measured temporal correlates of the perception of spatially inhomogeneous stimuli, or thermal grills. We assessed the intensity of responses elicited by thermal grill stimuli with different temperature settings, and measured the response time until the onset of burning sensations. We found that thermal grills elicited highly stereotyped responses. The experimental results also indicated that as the temperature difference increases, the intensity increases monotonically, while the response time decreases monotonically. Consequently, perceived intensity was inversely correlated with response time. Under current physiological explanations, responses to thermal stimuli depend on tissue heating, neural processing, and the spatial distribution (or juxtaposition) of surface temperatures. The results of this study could help to inform models accounting for these factors, enabling new applications of the thermal grill illusion.

We provide the first perceptual quantification of user's sensitivity to radial optic flow artifacts and demonstrate a promising approach for masking this optic flow artifact via blink suppression. Near-eye HMOs allow users to feel immersed in virtual environments by providing visual cues, like motion parallax and stereoscopy, that mimic how we view the physical world. However, these systems exhibit a variety of perceptual artifacts that can limit their usability and the user's sense of presence in VR. One well-known artifact is the vergence-accommodation conflict (VAC). Varifocal displays can mitigate VAC, but bring with them other artifacts such as a change in virtual image size (radial optic flow) when the focal plane changes. We conducted a set of psychophysical studies to measure users' ability to perceive this radial flow artifact before, during, and after self-initiated blinks. Our results showed that visual sensitivity was reduced by a factor of 10 at the start and for similar to 70 ms after a blink was detected. Pre- and post-blink sensitivity was, on average, similar to 0.15% image size change during normal viewing and increased to similar to 1.5- 2.0% during blinks. Our results imply that a rapid (under 70 ms) radial optic flow distortion can go unnoticed during a blink. Furthermore, our results provide empirical data that can be used to inform engineering requirements for both hardware design and software-based graphical correction algorithms for future varifocal near-eye displays. Our project website is available at https://gamma.umd.edu/ROF/. Z8 0

Accommodative depth cues, a wide field of view, and ever-higher resolutions all present major hardware design challenges for near-eye displays. Optimizing a design to overcome one of these challenges typically leads to a trade-off in the others. We tackle this problem by introducing an all-in-one solution a new wide field of view, gaze-tracked near-eye display for augmented reality applications. The key component of our solution is the use of a single see-through, varifocal deformable membrane mirror for each eye reflecting a display. They are controlled by airtight cavities and change the effective focal power to present a virtual image at a target depth plane which is determined by the gaze tracker. The benefits of using the membranes include wide field of view (100 diagonal) and fast depth switching (from 20 cm to infinity within 300 ms). Our subjective experiment verifies the prototype and demonstrates its potential benefits for near-eye see-through displays.

Most existing force feedback gloves use rigid exoskeleton with large structural dimensions, making it challenging to meet the future demand of virtual reality (VR) applications for large-scale end users. There is an urgent need to develop soft and ultrathin gloves similar to daily gloves. Different from the idea of regulating the friction between layers, here we propose a multi-material teeth-clutching layer jamming (MateJam) actuator, which can achieve distinctive bending stiffness in free and constrained space. The actuator consists of multi-material layers whose modulus span three orders of magnitude, including flexible substrate layer, limiting layer, rigid micro-teeth clutching structure layer, sliding film boundary layer, and sealed shell layer. In free space, the flexible substrate, and the rigid micro-teeth array structure form flexible hinges, ensuring low resistance. In constrained space, the engagement degree of the rigid micro-teeth array is controlled by vacuum pressure to continuously adjust the output resistance. Reliable switching between free and constrained space is ensured by introducing the sliding film boundary layer and the optimized design of the micro-teeth cross-sectional shape. The force output ratio between free and constrained space reaches over 20 times (0.45N vs. 11.95N). The thickness of the actuator is as low as 3.8mm (clutched state), and the weight of the glove is 44.03g. The ultrathin formfactor and the low cost fabrication process makes the MateJam glove a promising solution for VR applications in home entertainment and social interactions. Z8 0

Many applications in virtual reality and telerobot call for the implementation of displaying to the human softness haptic on the object being touched. Although there are lots of literatures on discrimination thresholds for displacement, force magnitude, shape, and viscosity, there is still a lack of research on discrimination and remembrance of softness perception of human fingertip. In this paper, a novel stiffness display device based on deformable length of elastic element control is presented firstly. Then the experiments of human fingertip perception of softness haptic by using the device that we developed are carried out. The haptic perception of human finger which includes resolution, times, frequency and remembrance are discussed. At last, some important conclusions are drawn. The results can aid in the process of designing haptic devices.

This paper presents a method of binocular visual stimulation for brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) based on steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) using phase-coded symbols. The proposed method's emphasis is on a binocular phase-coded visual stimulus, which is based on the phase differences between the left- and right-eye stimuli, and a symbol detection and recognition procedure based on SSVEP response of the left and right occipital lobes of the user's scalp, where the SSVEP response is obtained as electroencephalography (EEG) signaling. The symbols are coded as phase differences and maintain the same frequency of the sine wave-modulated light provided to the user's left and right eyes as a binocular visual stimulation. Based on this method, a basic system setup is presented to explore the possibilities of binocular phase-coded visual stimuli for virtual or augmented reality applications, where the binocular visual stimulation was achieved by the specially designed head-mounted displays. Multiple visually coded targets are realized as eight different phase-coded binocular symbols and further evaluated as a random sequence of single targets, thus representing the situations in virtual or augmented reality, where multiple visually coded targets are present but not visualized to the user simultaneously within the same field of view. The of offline results obtained from ten healthy subjects revealed that an average symbol recognition accuracy of 90.63% and an information transfer rate (ITR) of 70.55 bits/min were achieved for a symbol stimulation time of 2 s. The results of this paper demonstrate the feasibility of using binocular visual stimuli for SSVEP-based BCIs, where reasonable ITR is achieved using single-frequency binocular phase-coded symbols. The proposed method indicates the possibility of combining it with 3D wearable visualization technologies, such as binocular head-mounted displays (HMDs), in order to improve the intuitiveness of the interaction with more immersive user experience using BCI modalities. Z8 0

Previous work in real and virtual settings has shown that the way in which we interact with objects plays a fundamental role in the way we perceive them. This article uses multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis to further characterize and quantify the effects of using different haptic exploratory procedures (EPs) on perceptual similarity spaces. In Experiment 1, 20 participants rated similarity on a set of nine novel, 3D objects varying in shape and texture after either following their contours, laterally rubbing their centers, gripping them, or sequentially touching their tips. MDS analysis was used to recover perceptual maps of the objects and relative weights of perceptual dimensions from similarity data. Both the maps and relative weights of shape/texture properties were found to vary as a function of the EP used. In addition, large individual differences in the relative weight of shape/texture were observed. In Experiment 2, 17 of the previous participants repeated Experiment 1 after an average of 105 days. The same patterns of raw similarity ratings, perceptual maps, dimension weights, and individual differences were observed, indicating that perceptual similarities remained stable over time. The findings underscore the role of hand movements and individual biases in shaping haptic perceptual similarity. A framework for validating multimodal virtual displays based on the approach used in the study is also presented.

Bimanual object manipulation involves using both hands to interact with objects in the environment, and the process requires the central nervous system to process sensory feedback and translate it into motor commands. Although there have been significant advancements in haptics and robotics, the kinematic strategies involved in bimanual coupled tasks are still not fully understood. This study aimed to investigate the dynamic interaction between hands during the manipulation of a shared object using two impedance-controlled exoskeletons programmed to simulate bimanual coupled manipulation of virtual objects. Twenty-six participants (right-handed and left-handed) were asked to use both hands to grab and place simulated objects in specific locations. The virtual objects were rendered with four different dynamic properties, affecting the manipulation strategies used to complete the tasks. The results showed that force asymmetries were related to movement direction and handedness preference, with right-handers exhibiting asymmetries related to movement direction and left-handers showing better control of the force applied between their hands. This is possibly due to their constant exposure to objects designed for right-handed use. Additionally, the haptic properties of the virtual objects influenced task performance in terms of timing and failure for all participants. This study demonstrates the potential of advanced technologies to provide realistic simulations of multi-joint movements involving the entire upper extremities. The findings have implications for the development of training programs for bimanual object manipulation tasks and the design of virtual environments that can enhance the learning process.

People with hand amputations experience strenuous daily life challenges, often leading to lifelong use of a prosthetic hand(s) and services. Modern advanced prosthetic hands must be able to provide human hand-like sensory perceptions to receive external stimuli during daily activities while simultaneously replicating a realistic appearance and physical properties to naturally integrate in social contexts; however, the practical realization of these issues are impeded by a lack of effective methodologies. Herein, we present an optimal set of materials, design layouts, and fabrication schemes to construct an easy-to-wear seamless electronic glove (e-glove) suitable for arbitrary hand shapes that provides all of the desired human hand-like features. The system configuration involves a connection to a control wristwatch unit for real-time display of sensory data measured and remote transmission to the user. The experimental and computational studies provide details regarding the underlying principles of the materials selection, mechanics design, and operational management of the entire system. The demonstration of the e-glove system in interactions with human subjects illustrates the utility, comfort, and convenience of this device.

Adults and kids struggle equally, if they have to focus on a topic at hand for longer durations. However, teaching the latter can be very challenging as they get easily distracted too. Particularly, while using mobile-based Augmented Reality applications for teaching kids, there are associated problems of small screen size, complex functionality and inconsistency. As per the existing literature, there are no clear design principles or guidelines that can be considered while designing and developing mobile AR applications, particularly for kids. This paper presents 23 identified usability principles that are further used to develop an interactive mobile-based AR application for learning basic English. The usability and suitability of the proposed application from users' perception was established using qualitative and quantitative analysis. Analysis of the students' behavior and teachers' interviews substantiates the use of proposed application in classrooms. Thirty pre-schoolers and 12 kindergarten teachers participated in this study. The results showed that the developed ARLE is efficient, effective, and highly usable for the kids. Further, the same identified usability principles can be effectively referred by researchers and developers while developing AR applications for kindergarten kids.

Mobile robotic telepresence systems require that information about the environment, the task, and the robot be presented to a remotely located user (operator) who controls the robot for a specific task. In this study, two interaction modes, proactive and reactive, that differ in the way the user receives information from the robot, were compared in an experimental system simulating a healthcare setting. The users controlled a mobile telepresence robot that delivered and received items (medication, food, or drink), and also obtained metrics (vital signs) from a simulated patient while the users performed a secondary healthcare-related task (they compiled health records which were displayed to them on the screen and answered related questions). The effect of the two interaction modes on overall performance and user perception was evaluated through a within-participant study design conducted with 50 participants belonging to two different types of populations (with and without a technological background). Efficiency, effectiveness, understanding, satisfaction, and situation awareness were defined as the dependent variables measured both objectively and subjectively. The proactive mode increased user performance, and understanding of the system and reduced the workload compared to the reactive mode. However, several of the users valued the option of increased user control experienced in the reactive mode. We, therefore, proposed design suggestions to highlight some of the benefits of factoring the reactive mode into the design as a hybrid mode. Z8 0

Augmented reality allows users to enhance their perception of the real world by using technology to overlap digital information onto their field of view. This raises challenges of a technical and conceptual nature, the latter particularly from an interaction design standpoint. The implementation of such technology has advantages in many areas of human activity, including its use in clinical interventions. The main objective of this research is to develop a navigation system for Image Guided Surgery (IGS), capable of combining the real world elements of the surgeon's visual field with virtual representations of internal organs, tissues, meta-information and clinical instruments allowing clinicians to approach surgical procedures much more fluently. This proposed method would be supported by electromagnetic tracking, allowing surgeons to view captures from the ultrasonic probe directly in their field of view. This would make it possible to support needle insertion in a more naturalistic environment. As the first of a series of evaluations, the input system interface will be presented and discussed in this paper.

We are developing tangible display systems that enable natural interaction with virtual surfaces. Tangible display systems are based on modern mobile devices that incorporate electronic image displays, graphics hardware, tracking systems, and digital cameras. Custom software allows the orientation of a device a and the position of the observer to be tracked in real-time. Using this information, realistic images of surfaces with complex textures and material properties illuminated by environment-mapped lighting, can be rendered to the screen at interactive rates. Tilting or moving in front of the device e produces realistic changes in surface lighting and material appearance. In this way, tangible displays allow virtual surfaces to be observed and manipulated as naturally as real ones, with the added benefit that surface g geometry and material properties can be modified in real-time. We demonstrate the utility of tangible display systems in four application a areas: material appearance research; computer-aided appearance design; enhanced access to digital library and museum collections; and new tools for digital artists.

Background: There is a need for innovative anatomic teaching tools. This paper describes a three dimensional (3D) tool employing the Microsoft Kinect T. Using this instrument, 3D temporal bone anatomy can be manipulated with the use of hand gestures, in the absence of mouse or keyboard. Methods: CT Temporal bone data is imported into an image processing program and segmented. This information is then exported in polygonal mesh format to an in-house designed 3D graphics engine with an integrated Microsoft Kinect T. Motion in the virtual environment is controlled by tracking hand position relative to the user's left shoulder. Results: The tool successfully tracked scene depth and user joint locations. This permitted gesture-based control over the entire 3D environment. Stereoscopy was deemed appropriate with significant object projection, while still maintaining the operator's ability to resolve image details. Specific anatomical structures can be selected from within the larger virtual environment. These structures can be extracted and rotated at the discretion of the user. Voice command employing the Kinect's T intrinsic speech library was also implemented, but is easily confounded by environmental noise. Conclusion: There is a need for the development of virtual anatomy models to complement traditional education. Initial development is time intensive. Nonetheless, our novel gesture-controlled interactive 3D model of the temporal bone represents a promising interactive teaching tool utilizing a novel interface.

Tactile icons were proposed to convey non-visual information as an abstract approach. Perception of transformational Tactons has been explored, which encode two or more dimensions of information with various vibrotactile parameters. Unlike transformational Tactons, compound Tactons are a sequence of two or more one-element Tactons. However, little has been done on how to design compound Tactons to present non-visual information effectively. This article investigates mean recognition rates and information transfer values of compound Tactons that encode complex navigation information, and evaluates their effectiveness on assisting the participants to navigate in a virtual city. Results of the experiments indicate that overall identification rate for three-parameter Tactons is 92.7% by manipulating different vibrotactile parameters, and 88.7% for four-parameter Tactons by adding an extra thermal parameter; guided by these compound Tactons, all participants were able to reach destinations in the simple virtual urban environment. Therefore, compound tactile icons can be a potential way of conveying multidimensional information.

In non-orthostereoscopic video see-through (VST) head-mounted displays (HMDs), the perception of the three-dimensional space is negatively altered by geometrical aberrations, which may lead to perceptual errors, problems of hand-eye coordination, and discomfort for the user. Parallax-free VST HMDs have been proposed, yet their embodiments are generally difficult to create. The present study investigates the guidelines for the development of non-orthostereoscopic VST HMDs capable of providing perceptually coherent augmentations for close-up views, hence specifically devoted to guide high-precision manual tasks. Our underlying rationale is that, under VST view, a perspective-preserving conversion of the camera frames is sufficient to restore the natural perception of the relative depths around a pre-defined working distance in non-orthostereoscopic VST HMDs. This perspective conversion needs to account for the geometry of the visor and the working distance. A simulation platform was designed to compare the on-image displacements between the direct view of the world and the perspective-corrected VST view, considering three different geometrical arrangements of cameras and displays. A user study with a custom-made VST HMD was then conducted to evaluate quantitatively and qualitatively which of the three configurations was the most effective in mitigating the impact of the geometrical aberrations around the reference distance. The results of the simulations and of the user study both proved that, in non-orthostereoscopic VST HMDs, display convergence can be prevented, as the perspective conversion of the camera frames is sufficient to restore the correct stereoscopic perception by the user in the peripersonal space.

We present an empirical evaluation on how stereoscopic viewing and haptic feedback deferentially affects fine motor perception-action coordination in a pick-and-place task in Virtual Reality (VR). The factors considered were stereoscopic viewing, haptic feedback, sensorymotor congruence and mismatch, and calibration on perceptionaction coordination in near field fine motor task performance in VR. Quantitative measures of placement error, distance, collision, and time to complete trials were recorded and analyzed. Overall, we found that participants' manual dexterous task performance was enhanced in the presence of both stereoscopic viewing and haptic feedback. However, we found that time to complete task was greatly enhanced by the presence of haptic feedback, and economy and efficiency of movement of the end effector as well as the manipulated object was enhanced by the presence of both haptic feedback and stereoscopic viewing. Whereas, number of collisions and placement accuracy were greatly enhanced by the presence of stereoscopic viewing in near-field fine motor perception-action coordination. Our research additionally shows that mismatch in sensory-motor stimuli can detrimentally affect the number of collisions, and efficiency of end effector and object movements in near-field fine motor activities, and can be further negatively affected by the absence of haptic feedback and stereoscopic viewing. In spite of reduced cue situations in VR, and the absence or presence of stereoscopic viewing and haptic feedback, we found that participants tend to calibrate or adapt their perception-action coordination rapidly with a set of at least 5 trials.

Museums have traditionally been places of learning, evolving into spaces that also facilitate socializing. This shift is particularly evident in virtual reality (VR) museums, which have become popular venues for activities like friend gatherings. However, education has long established the social norm that museums need to "maintaining silence." Even in virtual environments, this can influence visitor behavior. This perception often prevents people from using verbal communication, leading them to prefer quieter forms of interaction. In museums, including the VR museums that now largely replicate the layout of physical museums, this preference may be reinforced by specific features, such as spaciousness, quietness, and block-based layouts, which may create visual obstructions, restricting interaction modes dependent on shared view, such as gesture interaction. These limitations necessitate the introduction of an additional interaction mode. Emojis, with their capacity for rapid message exchange and adjustable positioning, emerge as a suitable interaction mode in this context. Thus, we introduce EmojiChat, an innovative VR museum experience designed to respect the social norms of traditionally keeping quiet while promoting natural interaction. We first design and iterate a customized emoji set for the museum context through semi-structured interviews, participatory design, and an online survey. Then, this emoji set is integrated into a VR museum to facilitate interaction between visitors. Finally, we conduct a comparative study to evaluate the performance of EmojiChat. Our results show that the integration of emojis can improve communication enjoyment and efficiency. Additionally, we identify usage patterns for interaction modes and the advantages offered by emojis. We also identify several challenges that point toward future directions for enhancing emoji integration and facilitating social interaction. Z8 0

Coordinate measuring machines (CMMs) are widely used in manufacturing industry to examine the conformity of produced parts with designers' intent in 3D sizes, positions and forms. Accessibility analysis plays an important role in CMM inspection planning. Traditional methods of accessibility analysis are based on the computation of a part's computer-aided design (CAD) model and the model. of a probe. In this paper, a novel accessibility analysis method for CMM inspection planning is proposed based on a haptic virtual CMM (HVCMM). The HVCMM is an accurate model of real CMM, which simulating CMMs' operation and their measurement process in a virtual environment with haptic perception. The collision modes while performing accessibility analysis are given. To achieve quick collision detection, spatial run-length encoding is used to represent both the part and the probe. Collision response is analyzed for distinguishing whether a collision is occurred. With the force feedback when the probe collides with a part, plus showing the contact in the HVCMM environment, it is much easier to perform the accessibility analysis. The haptic response is implemented with a Phantom haptic arm from SensAble (c) Technologies.

Cutaneous haptics is helpful to tame the human-machine mismatch by interactive tactile feedback and perform precise manipulations for virtual immersive interactions. However, wearable tactile gloves cover the palm and fingers greatly, thus reducing the tactile information from interactive objects and causing the inconsistency between virtual and practical operations. In this work, we design a lightweight finger-worn vibration bot, named VibroBot, to provide the individual vibrotactile feedback to each finger without compromising the hand dexterity. Each VibroBot, weighing only 2.9 grams, integrates components of the power, a wireless chip and a coil actuator, to receive programmable waveform signals and perform the real-time vibration feedback wirelessly on finger. Our design features six rapidly distinguishable vibration modes with the 96.4% recognition rate in 2.0 s, each guiding one of three finger joints for flexing or extending to a specified angular range. When worn on all five fingers, VibroBots can collaboratively guide the user with multi-dimension semantics, to adjust five fingers for target hand gestures at the same time. In virtual gesture training experiments, VibroBots were used to correct users' muscle memory bias for common gestures, and reduced the average gesture error from about 30$<^>\circ$ to less than 15$<^>\circ$. Haptic guidance by VibroBots shows its potential in various Tactile Internet scenarios that require a large number of pretrained hand operations, such as robotic teleoperation and virtual surgical training. Z8 0

Purpose The aim of this paper is to examine the effects of a learner's regulatory focus orientation and message frame of a motivational virtual agent in an e-learning environment. Design/methodology/approach On the basis of quasi-experimental design, university sophomores (n = 210) categorized as chronic promotion-focus, chronic prevention-focus or neutral regulatory focus interacted with either an agent that conveyed gain-frame message or an agent that conveyed loss-frame message to persuade learners to engage with the e-learning content. Statistical analyses assessed the effects of regulatory focus and message frame on agent perception, motivation and cognitive load. Findings The results of this paper did not support the hypotheses that chronic promotion-focus learners will benefit more with gain-frame agent than a loss-frame agent, and that chronic prevention-focus learners will benefit more with loss-frame agent than a gain-frame agent. There were main effects of message frame (albeit small effects) - the loss-frame agent was perceived to be more engaging, induced higher motivation and prompted higher germane load than the gain-frame agent. With gain-frame agent, chronic promotion-focus learners had higher motivation toward the e-learning task than other learners. Originality/value Prior studies have examined regulatory focus and message frame with agents simulating virtual health advocates. This paper extended on this by examining these roles with a persuasive agent simulating virtual tutor in an e-learning environment.

Background: Education is, after gaming, the second largest sector embracing augmented reality (AR) at an accelerated pace, yet studies on AR's potential as an efficient learning environment had mixed results.Objectives: This study's primary objective is to test students' interaction with graphical 3D elements in AR and its impact on information retention. The second objective is to compare information retention from AR engagement with information retention from exposure to identical 3D content delivered via instructional video. Finally, the third objective explores students' perceptions of AR as a learning environment.Methods: Sixty-five college students participated in a two-arm experiment followed by semi-structured interviews.Results and Conclusion: AR can efficiently deliver a meaningful learning experience and promotes information retention. Nevertheless, AR's interactive features and novelty may distract learners while they engage with the virtual environment. Objective data obtained through eye tracking and video monitoring showed similar levels of engagement with a 3D model for both environments. While both AR and video groups showed significant knowledge gain from pre to post-intervention, the video format was overall significantly more effective than AR in increasing topic-related information retention. However, participants preferred the AR learning environment significantly more than the video.Takeaways: Although effective, AR is still a distracting instructional environment. Designing learning experiences tailored explicitly for AR environments requires additional research to ensure its successful deployment as a learning tool.

The perception of body ownership creates a sense of embodiment, which can be a powerful learning tool. Embodied learning can occur by watching an individual's body movement and also via human-computer interactions, such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR). In this article, we designed and implemented a novel virtual body-ownership AR/VR tool for human anatomy-the human muscular arm avatar (HMAA). HMAA utilizes embodiment-based body ownership to explore the human hand/forearm musculature. The HMAA was trialed with medical students to explore the extent to which it could be used to aid student learning. The key findings of the usability study suggest that 98% (N = 100) of students found the tool extremely useful; 83% reported that the tool allowed them to engage with the learning materials, peers, and content effectively. Also, 10% of students mentioned that the HMAA fostered an embodied learning experience. This triggered an intentional exploration of instances suggesting embodiment in the data. HMAA is believed to have allowed individuals to visualize and conceptualize abstract ideas that would have been otherwise challenging using static models. The outcomes of this article indicate the significant potential of body-ownership-based self-learning tools for anatomy. However, further studies using learning outcomes are needed to investigate the potential advantages of body-ownership-based tools compared to current learning techniques. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) sickness is one of the obstacles hindering the growth of the VR market. Different VR contents may cause various degree of sickness. If the degree of the sickness can be estimated objectively, it adds a great value and help in designing the VR contents. To address this problem, a novel content-based VR sickness assessment method which considers both the perception prior and hybrid temporal features is proposed. Based on the perception prior which assumes the user's field of view becomes narrower while watching videos, a Gaussian weighted optical flow is calculated with a specified aspect ratio. In order to capture the dynamic characteristics, hybrid temporal features including horizontal motion, vertical motion and the proposed motion anisotropy are adopted. In addition, a new dataset is compiled with one hundred VR sickness test samples and each of which comes along with the Discomfort Scores (DS) answered by the user and a Simulator Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ) collected at the end of test. A random forest regressor is then trained on this dataset by feeding the hybrid temporal features of both the present and the previous minute. Extensive experiments are conducted on the VRSA dataset and the results demonstrate that the proposed method is comparable to the state-of-the-art method in terms of effectiveness and efficiency.

Problem, research strategy, and findings: Livability is a popular goal, yet a consistent definition and approach for measuring livability remain elusive. Many urban designers embrace etic indicators such as block size, multimodality, and accessibility rather than emic perceptions of users. Kevin Lynch showed great concern for emic livability and studied how culture and technology might affect it. We examine relationships between emic and etic interpretations of livability, drawing on a pilot study involving both in-person and Google Street View audits performed by U.S. and Norwegian student volunteers in San Francisco (CA) and Oslo (Norway) neighborhoods. Audits recorded both etic and emic measurements of walkability, compactness, connectivity, enclosure, and imageability, commonly associated with livable urban environments. Results show substantial differences between emic and etic measures. Regression models show that of all etic variables, only a few are useful predictors of emic measures. Country of origin also has no significant effect in these models, which suggests that emic interpretations of livability are reasonably consistent among auditors from both nations despite their lack of previous familiarity with non-home cities. Takeaway for practice: Emic impressions of livability may be more internationally transferable than etic qualities traditionally associated with livable places. Google Street View led to greater livability impressions than in-person audits, which suggests caution in relying on virtual experiences as proxies for fieldwork.

We introduce Pepita, a caricatured huggable robot capable of sensing and conveying affective expressions by means of tangible gesture recognition and projected avatars. This study covers the design criteria, implementation and performance evaluation of the different characteristics of the form and function of this robot. The evaluation involves: (1) the exploratory study of the different features of the device, (2) design and performance evaluation of sensors for affective interaction employing touch, and (3) design and implementation of affective feedback using projected avatars. Results showed that the hug detection worked well for the intended application and the affective expressions made with projected avatars were appropriated for this robot. The questionnaires analyzing users' perception provide us with insights to guide the future designs of similar interfaces.

Virtual reality has become more accessible and affordable to the general public in recent years, introducing the exciting potential of this technology to new audiences. However, the mechanisms of navigating within a virtual environment have primarily been constrained to handheld input devices akin to gaming controllers. For people unfamiliar with traditional gaming input devices, VR navigation devices are not intuitively mapped to real-world modes of locomotion and can be frustrating and disorienting. Designers have largely focused on utility (the ability to efficiently accomplish a task) to the detriment of usability (ease of use). The industry lacks an intuitive, universal method of navigation that can be easily learned by novice participants. Dr. Jakob Nielsen identified five factors that impact usability in human-computer interactions (HCI): learnability, efficiency, memorability, errors, and satisfaction. Previous research in virtual environment locomotion incorporated teaching time periods where the researchers explained the control devices to participants. We believe that this neglected one of the key usability factors in human computer interactions: learnability, or the ability and ease to accomplish a task the first time a user encounters it. Our research focuses on comparing existing modes of navigation (game controller based) with a mode of controller-less fully embodied navigation between two demographics based on Nielsen's usability factors. Existing research has demonstrated little noticeable learnability difference between modes of rotation and lean based navigation, and joystick navigation in VR [I]; however, similar study demonstrates that partially embodied leaning mechanics can positively affect sensory perception in VR [2]. While previous studies in controller-less VR navigation methods have demonstrated an inclination toward subject motion sickness when controllers are removed [3], other research has yielded positive qualitative results (sans motion sickness) when partially embodied alternative controller systems are used [4]. Additional research into partially embodied alternative controller systems has, in fact, indicated a preference toward existing modes of controller based joystick navigation in VR subjects [5]; however, when partially embodied leaning mechanics are combined with another mode of sensory perception, like foot haptics, self-motion perception (vection) is enhanced [6]. In this study, we test a fully embodied mode of navigation to evaluate whether a fully engaged body experiences more positive usability results according to HCI measures. We test our results within communities of self identified gamers and non-gamers, evaluating navigation modes designed for joystick control pads, trigger-based teleportation, and controller less embodied navigation. Our research inquires whether embodied navigation enhances usability in accordance with Nielsen's usability factors, specifically enabling easier access and engagement for inexperienced subjects, compared with controller-based modes of navigation.

Virtual environments for gaming and simulation provide dynamic and adaptive experiences, but, despite advances in multisensory interfaces, these are still primarily visual experiences. To support real-time dynamic adaptation, interactive virtual environments could implement techniques to predict and manipulate human visual attention. One promising way of developing such techniques is to base them on psychophysical observations, an approach that requires a sound understanding of visual attention allocation. Understanding how this allocation of visual attention changes depending on a user's task offers clear benefits in developing these techniques and improving virtual environment design. With this aim, we investigated the effect of task on visual attention in interactive virtual environments. We recorded fixation data from participants completing freeview, search, and navigation tasks in three different virtual environments. We quantified visual attention differences between conditions by identifying the predictiveness of a low-level saliency model and its corresponding color, intensity, and orientation feature-conspicuity maps, as well as measuring fixation center bias, depth, duration, and saccade amplitude. Our results show that task does affect visual attention in virtual environments. Navigation relies more than search or freeview on intensity conspicuity to allocate visual attention. Navigation also produces fixations that are more central, longer, and deeper into the scenes. Further, our results suggest that it is difficult to distinguish between freeview and search tasks. These results provide important guidance for designing virtual environments for human interaction, as well as identifying future avenues of research for developing "attention-aware" virtual worlds.

Recent advances in medical image acquisition allow for the reconstruction of anatomies with 3D, 4D, and 5D renderings. Nevertheless, standard anatomical and medical data visualization still relies heavily on the use of traditional 2D didactic tools (i.e., textbooks and slides), which restrict the presentation of image data to a 2D slice format. While these approaches have their merits beyond being cost effective and easy to disseminate, anatomy is inherently three-dimensional. By using 2D visualizations to illustrate more complex morphologies, important interactions between structures can be missed. In practice, such as in the planning and execution of surgical interventions, professionals require intricate knowledge of anatomical complexities, which can be more clearly communicated and understood through intuitive interaction with 3D volumetric datasets, such as those extracted from high-resolution CT or MRI scans. Open source, high quality, 3D medical imaging datasets are freely available, and with the emerging popularity of 3D display technologies, affordable and consistent 3D anatomical visualizations can be created. In this study we describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of one such interactive, stereoscopic visualization paradigm for human anatomy extracted from 3D medical images. A stereoscopic display was created by projecting the scene onto the lab floor using sequential frame stereo projection and viewed through active shutter glasses. By incorporating a PhaseSpace motion tracking system, a single viewer can navigate an augmented reality environment and directly manipulate virtual objects in 3D. While this paradigm is sufficiently versatile to enable a wide variety of applications in need of 3D visualization, we designed our study to work as an interactive game, which allows users to explore the anatomy of various organs and systems. In this study we describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of an interactive and stereoscopic visualization platform for exploring and understanding human anatomy. This system can present medical imaging data in three dimensions and allows for direct physical interaction and manipulation by the viewer. This should provide numerous benefits over traditional, 2D display and interaction modalities, and in our analysis, we aim to quantify and qualify users' visual and motor interactions with the virtual environment when employing this interactive display as a 3D didactic tool.

In perceptual psychology, estimations of visual depth and size under different spatial layouts have been extensively studied. However, research evidence in virtual environments (VE) is relatively lacking. The emergence of human-computer interaction (HCI) and virtual reality (VR) has raised the question of how human operators perform actions based on the estimation of visual properties in VR, especially when the sensory cues associated with the same object are conflicting. We report on an experiment in which participants compared the size of a visual sphere to a haptic sphere, belonging to the same object in a VE. The sizes from the visual and haptic modalities were either identical or conflicting (with visual size being larger than haptic size, or vice versa). We used three standard haptic references (small, medium, and large sizes) and asked participants to compare the visual sizes with the given reference, by method of constant stimuli. Results show a dominant functional priority of the visual size perception. Moreover, observers demonstrated a central tendency effect: over-estimation for smaller haptic sizes but under-estimation for larger haptic sizes. The results are in-line with previous studies in real environments (RE). We discuss the current findings in the framework of adaptation level theory for haptic size reference. This work provides important implications for the optimal design of human-computer interactions when integrating 3D visual-haptic information in a VE.

Background: Schizophrenia is a mental disorder characterized by impairments in diverse thinking and emotional responses, which are related to social perception dysfunction. This fMRI study was designed to investigate a neurobiological basis of social perception deficits of patients with schizophrenia in various social situations of daily life and their relationship with clinical symptoms and social dysfunction. Methods: Seventeen patients and 19 controls underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging, during which participants performed a virtual social perception task, containing an avatar's speech with positive, negative or neutral emotion in a virtual reality space. Participants were asked to determine whether or not the avatar's speech was appropriate to each situation. Results: The significant group x appropriateness interaction was seen in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), resulting from lower activity in patients in the inappropriate condition, and left DLPFC activity was negatively correlated with the severity of negative symptoms and positively correlated with the level of social functioning. The significant appropriateness x emotion interaction observed in the left superior temporal sulcus (STS) was present in controls, but absent in patients, resulting from the existence and absence of a difference between the inappropriate positive and negative conditions, respectively. Conclusions: These findings indicate that dysfunction of the DLPFC-STS network may underlie patients' abnormal social perception in various social situations of daily life. Abnormal functioning of this network may contribute to increases of negative symptoms and decreases of social functioning. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

Telepresence robots provide remote team members with embodied presence, but whether this improves remote teammate participation, remote users' perceptions of team collaboration, or collocated members' perceptions of remote teammates is an open question. We conducted an experiment in which teams of two collocated members and one telepresent (remote) member solved a word puzzle requiring a translation key. We varied who had access to the key to examine effects of resource accessibility in distributed groups: in the Robot Information condition, the remote pilot (RP) possessed the key; in the Shared Information condition, all team members possessed the key; in the Local Information condition, only collocated participants (CPs) possessed the key. Audio transcripts were analyzed for differences in the number of words spoken by each team member. RPs spoke significantly less than CPs, especially when they lacked the translation key. RPs perceived greater task difficulty and less ease of communication than CPs. CPs rated other CPs as more trustworthy than RPs. This suggests an imbalance between collocated and remote collaborators that can negatively affect collaboration. We discuss implications for the design and use of telepresence robots in the workplace.

There are various social support services to help people with intellectual disabilities (ID) find jobs for their independent social and economic activities in life. With the advancement of virtual reality (VR) technologies, vocational training can take place in a virtual environment (VE) without temporal and spatial limitations. Therefore, opportunities for people with ID to receive professional vocational training in a VE continue to expand. Accordingly, this study proposes that virtual intervention (VI) technology can improve the effects of virtual training and learning transfer from the virtual to the real world. We defined VI as a supportive activity that assists trainees in a VE according to their individual ability and training situation through an instructor's control in the real world. We designed the virtual intervention content (VIC) as intervening virtual objects and applied them to a virtual barista job training program. We developed the virtual intervention interface (VII) for smoothly supporting the interaction between the trainee in the VE and the instructor in the real world, especially for people with ID or beginner trainees. In this study, we derived statistically significant findings that demonstrated the effects of VI technology through two experiments conducted with 39 participants with ID. Firstly, VIC showed an effective intervention function that helped the participants solve problems during virtual vocational training. Also, we observed differences in the intervention effect according to the sensory perception characteristics of the participants. Secondly, trainees' barista job performance rates improved by 37.43% after receiving virtual training. Moreover, the effects of training were largely maintained in the job performance assessment after three weeks in an actual cafe situation. This suggests that the effects of VI-based virtual training are meaningful not only within the VE but also in the real world for the transfer of learning. Furthermore, the VI method was significantly more effective and efficient than the conventional method using the human instructor's verbal and physical intervention in terms of time, frequency, and success rate.

Most of the information a user obtains through a computer is visual and/or auditory. Providing synchronized haptic information in addition to visual and/or auditory information can significantly enhance user experience and perception of virtual objects. In this paper, we propose a pneumatically-controlled haptic mouse that can replace a conventional computer mouse and deliver multimodal haptic feedback using a single end-effector. The haptic mouse can deliver distinct haptic feedback, i.e., static pressure, high frequency vibrations, and impact response. It has a dual-layered silicone housing with two air chambers. The outer layer is stretchable, and when pumped with air, changes in size and delivers feedback directly to the hand. The inner layer is non-stretchable, and is used to hold the form of the haptic mouse. Various experiments were conducted to quantify the characteristics of haptic mouse. The haptic mouse can generate a static pressure of up to 0.6 Gs, vibrations up to 250 Hz, and provides a max actuation delay of 23 ms. Based on those characteristics, haptic geometry and texture rendering algorithms were developed. These algorithms were used to render virtual shapes and textures and were evaluated using a psychophysical experiment. The results show that participants were able to successfully identify the geometries and textures in most cases.

As an important technology of virtual reality, tactile reproduction enables users to touch and perceive virtual objects. The emergence of remote palpation technology based on tactile reproduction provides a new idea for disease diagnosis. Remote palpation technology collects tactile perception from the patient side, transmits it to the doctor side through the network, and uses various tactile devices to reproduce it. However tactile reproduction has high accuracy and real-time requirements. Our group designed a handheld tactile perception and reproduction system for remote palpation. This system generates tactile force feedback by driving coil current in an electromagnetic tactile device. Therefore, it is very important to establish a fast and accurate current prediction model to generate tactile feedback. We observe temporal relationships in tactile information, so we take advantage of the time series prediction model LSTM and the regression prediction model GRNN, and use the idea of ensemble learning to build a more powerful and accurate current prediction model. We conduct comprehensive experiments, and the experimental results show that our proposed method helps to improve the accuracy and speed of remote palpation.

Haptic feedback in immersive virtual reality (IVR) systems is critical to enable a more intuitive and natural way of interacting with virtual objects. IVR-based haptic medical simulations such as needle insertion procedures have the potential to enhance clinicians' haptic expertise. This work is a preliminary study on the use and implementation of IVR for needle simulators. Although few studies have quantified haptic skills such as force Just Noticeable Difference (JND) with the single finger, none have measured the force JND as recommended in the standard needle insertion protocol in an IVR environment. The hypothesis of this study is that there will be an improvement of force perception in the IVR, compared to that of the non-immersive virtual reality (NIVR) which facilitates the use of IVR for medical simulations. This paper emphasized on two objectives: firstly, the development of the observer state model for both the IVR and NIVR and the theoretical analysis of the psychophysical measures in both of the environments. Secondly, measures of force JND with the three fingers and comparison of these measures in NIVR to that of the IVR using psychophysical study with the force matching task, constant stimuli method, and isometric force probing stimuli to validate the model. Twenty voluntary subjects performed the experiment in both of the environments. Mean force JND and standard deviation of the JND were found to be 9.12% and 3.75% in the NIVR and 5.91% and 3.65% in the IVR (p value < 0.0001) which are in the same range of JNDs found in the literature (5-10%) for the NIVR using a single finger. Surprisingly, the results showed a better force JND in the IVR compared to that of the NIVR. Also, a simple state observer model was proposed to explain the improvement of force JND in the IVR. This study would quantitatively reinforce the use of IVR for the design of various medical simulators.

In virtual reality, talking face generation is committed to using voice and face images to generate real face speech videos to improve the communication experience in the case of limited user information exchange. In a real video, blinking is an action often accompanied by speech, and it is also one of the indispensable actions in real face speech videos. However, the current methods either do not pay attention to the generation of eye movements, or cannot control the blinking in the generated results. To this end, this article proposes a novel system which produces vivid talking face with controllable eye blinks driven by the joint features including identity feature, audio feature, and blink feature. In order to disentangle the blinking action, we designed three independent features to individually drive the main components in the generated frame, namely the facial appearance, mouth movements, and eye movements. Through the adversarial training of the identity encoder, we filter out the information of the eye state from the identity feature, thereby strengthening the independence of the blinking feature. We introduced the blink score as the leading information of the blink feature, and through training, the value can be consistent with human perception to form a complete and independent control of the eyes. Experimental results on multiple datasets show that our method can not only reproduce real talking faces, but also ensure that the blinking pattern and time are fully controllable.

This article starts with the environmental changes in human cognition, analyzes the virtual as the main feature of visual perception under digital technology, and explores the transition from passive to active human cognitive activities. With the diversified understanding of visual information, human contradiction of memory also began to become prominent. Aiming at the problem that the existing multimodal TV media recognition methods have low recognition rate of unknown application layer protocols, an adaptive clustering method for identifying unknown application layer protocols is proposed. This method clusters application layer protocols based on similarity of the load characteristics of network stream application layer protocol data. The method divides the similarity calculation in the clustering algorithm to improve the clustering efficiency of the algorithm. Experimental results show that the proposed method can efficiently and accurately recognize unknown visual communication. This article proposes that, in the interactive multimodal visual information transmission, human visual perception experience has changed, the diversity of visual information content expression makes the aesthetic subject more personalized and stylized.

Augmented reality (AR) display technology greatly enhances users' perception of and interaction with the real world by superimposing a computer-generated virtual scene on the real physical world. The main problem of the state-of-the-art 3D AR head-mounted displays (HMDs) is the accommodation-vergence conflict because the 2D images displayed by flat panel devices are at a fixed distance from the eyes. In this paper, we present a design for an optical see-through HMD utilizing multi-plane display technology for AR applications. This approach manages to provide correct depth information and solves the accommodation-vergence conflict problem. In our system, a projector projects slices of a 3D scene onto a stack of polymer-stabilized liquid crystal scattering shutters in time sequence to reconstruct the 3D scene. The polymer-stabilized liquid crystal shutters have sub-millisecond switching time that enables sufficient number of shutters to achieve high depth resolution. A proof-of-concept two-plane optical see-through HMD prototype is demonstrated. Our design can be made lightweight, compact, with high resolution, and large depth range from near the eye to infinity and thus holds great potential for fatigue-free AR HMDs.

Audio-based Environment Simulator (AbES) is virtual environment software designed to improve real world navigation skills in the blind. Using only audio based cues and set within the context of a video game metaphor, users gather relevant spatial information regarding a building's layout. This allows the user to develop an accurate spatial cognitive map of a large-scale three-dimensional space that can be manipulated for the purposes of a real indoor navigation task. After game play, participants are then assessed on their ability to navigate within the target physical building represented in the game. Preliminary results suggest that early blind users were able to acquire relevant information regarding the spatial layout of a previously unfamiliar building as indexed by their performance on a series of navigation tasks. These tasks included path finding through the virtual and physical building, as well as a series of drop off tasks. We find that the immersive and highly interactive nature of the AbES software appears to greatly engage the blind user to actively explore the virtual environment. Applications of this approach may extend to larger populations of visually impaired individuals.

In tactile interaction, a phantom sensation refers to an illusion felt on the skin between two distant points at which vibrations are applied. It can improve the perceptual spatial resolution of tactile stimulation with a few tactors. All phantom sensations reported in the literature act on the skin or out of the body, but no such reports exist for those eliciting sensations penetrating the body. This paper addresses tactile phantom sensations in which two vibration actuators on the dorsal and palmar sides of the hand present an illusion of vibration passing through the hand. We also demonstrate similar tactile illusions for the torso. For optimal design, we conducted user studies while varying vibration frequency, envelope function, stimulus duration, and penetrating direction. Based on the results, we present design guidelines on penetrating phantom sensations for its use in immersive virtual reality applications.

Background: Although principles based in motor learning, rehabilitation, and human-computer interfaces can guide the design of effective interactive systems for rehabilitation, a unified approach that connects these key principles into an integrated design, and can form a methodology that can be generalized to interactive stroke rehabilitation, is presently unavailable. Results: This paper integrates phenomenological approaches to interaction and embodied knowledge with rehabilitation practices and theories to achieve the basis for a methodology that can support effective adaptive, interactive rehabilitation. Our resulting methodology provides guidelines for the development of an action representation, quantification of action, and the design of interactive feedback. As Part I of a two-part series, this paper presents key principles of the unified approach. Part II then describes the application of this approach within the implementation of the Adaptive Mixed Reality Rehabilitation (AMRR) system for stroke rehabilitation. Conclusions: The accompanying principles for composing novel mixed reality environments for stroke rehabilitation can advance the design and implementation of effective mixed reality systems for the clinical setting, and ultimately be adapted for home-based application. They furthermore can be applied to other rehabilitation needs beyond stroke.

Despite the advances in machine perception, semantic scene understanding is still a limiting factor in mixed reality scene composition. In this paper, we present TransforMR, a video see-through mixed reality system for mobile devices that performs 3D-pose-aware object substitution to create meaningful mixed reality scenes. In real-time and for previously unseen and unprepared real-world environments, TransforMR composes mixed reality scenes so that virtual objects assume behavioral and environment-contextual properties of replaced real-world objects. This yields meaningful, coherent, and human-interpretable scenes, not yet demonstrated by today's augmentation techniques. TransforMR creates these experiences through our novel pose-aware object substitution method building on different 3D object pose estimators, instance segmentation, video inpainting, and pose-aware object rendering. TransforMR is designed for use in the real-world, supporting the substitution of humans and vehicles in everyday scenes, and runs on mobile devices using just their monocular RGB camera feed as input. We evaluated TransforMR with eight participants in an uncontrolled city environment employing different transformation themes. Applications of TransforMR include real-time character animation analogous to motion capturing in professional film making, however without the need for preparation of either the scene or the actor, as well as narrative-driven experiences that allow users to explore fictional parallel universes in mixed reality. We make all of our source code and assets available(1).

Noninvasive brain-computer interface (BCI) is widely used to recognize users' intentions. Especially, BCI related to tactile and sensation decoding could provide various effects on many industrial fields such as manufacturing advanced touch displays, controlling robotic devices, and more immersive virtual reality or augmented reality. In this paper, we introduce haptic and sensory perception-based BCI systems called neurohaptics. It is a preliminary study for a variety of scenarios using actual touch and touch imagery paradigms. We designed a novel experimental environment and a device that could acquire brain signals under touching designated materials to generate natural touch and texture sensations. Through the experiment, we collected the electroencephalogram (EEG) signals with respect to four different texture objects. Seven subjects were recruited for the experiment and evaluated classification performances using machine learning and deep learning approaches. Hence, we could confirm the feasibility of decoding actual touch and touch imagery on EEG signals to develop practical neurohaptics.

The paper presents a method for the simulation of motion parallax for monitor-based Augmented Reality (AR) applications. Motion parallax effects the relative movement between far and close objects: near objects appear moving faster than far objects do. This facilitates the perception of depth, distances, and the structure of geometrically complex objects. Today, industrial AR applications are equipped with monitor-based output devices, e.g., for design reviews. Thus this important depth cue is omitted because all objects appear as one even layer on screen. As a result, the assessment of complex structures becomes more difficult. The method presented in this paper utilizes depth images to create layered images: multiple images in which objects in a video image are split up with respect to their distance too a video camera. Using head tracking, the single layers are relatively moved with respect to the user's head position. This simulates motion parallax. Virtual objects superimpose the final image to complete the AR scene. The method was prototypically realized, the results show its feasibility.

The aim of this study was to examine if the forces applied by users of a haptic simulator could be used to distinguish expert surgeons from novices. Seven surgeons with significant operating room expertise and 9 novices with no surgical experience participated in this study. The experimental task comprised exploring 4 virtual materials with the haptic device and learning the precise forces required to compress the materials to various depths. The virtual materials differed in their stiffness and force-displacement profiles. The results revealed that for nonlinear virtual materials, surgeons applied significantly greater magnitudes of force than novices. Furthermore, for the softer nonlinear and linear materials, surgeons were significantly more accurate in reproducing forces than novices. The results of this study suggest that the magnitudes of force measured using haptic simulators may be used to objectively differentiate experts' haptic skill from that of novices. This knowledge can inform the design of virtual reality surgical simulators and lead to the future incorporation of haptic skills training in medical school curricula.

The supernumerary robotic limb system expands the motor function of human users by adding extra artificially designed limbs. It is important for us to embody the system as if it is a part of one's own body and to maintain cognitive transparency in which the cognitive load is suppressed. Embodiment studies have been conducted with an expansion of bodily functions through a "substitution" and "extension". However, there have been few studies on the "addition" of supernumerary body parts. In this study, we developed a supernumerary robotic limb system that operates in a virtual environment, and then evaluated whether the extra limb can be regarded as a part of one's own body using a questionnaire and whether the perception of peripersonal space changes with a visuotactile crossmodal congruency task. We found that the participants can embody the extra-limbs after using the supernumerary robotic limb system. We also found a positive correlation between the perceptual change in the crossmodal congruency task and the subjective feeling that the number of one's arms had increased (supernumerary limb sensation). These results suggest that the addition of an extra body part may cause the participants to feel that they had acquired a new body part that differs from their original body part through a functional expansion.

Given the increasingly important role of SNS account in corporate marketing strategy and the growing number of technical features built in SNS platforms, it is worth investigating how these available features facilitate virtual presence and customers' engagement behaviors. Drawing upon the presence formation framework, this study examines the impact of Instagram features (i.e. call to action, Instagram stories, and geotagging) on generating users' perception of telepresence, social presence, and flow, which subsequently affect their actual engagement behavior. A field experiment with a 2x2x2 factorial design was conducted. The results indicate that all examined features can effectively evoke telepresence and social presence within a corporate SNS account. In addition, both telepresence and social presence significantly improve perceived flow, ultimately contributing to engagement behavior (i.e. following and sharing). The findings illuminate the role of social media features as crucial antecedents to presence and engagement behavior which provide business owners with interesting insights into how to effectively utilize it to maintain and foster customer relationships.

Educational researchers have recognized Augmented Reality (AR) as a technology with great potential to impact affective and cognitive learning outcomes. However, very little work has been carried out to substantiate these claims. The purpose of this study was to assess to which extent an AR learning application affects learners' level of enjoyment and learning effectiveness. The study followed an experimental/control group design using the type of the application (AR-based, web-based) as independent variable. 64 high school students were randomly assigned to the experimental or control group to learn the basic principles of electromagnetism. The participants' knowledge acquisition was evaluated by comparing pre- and post-tests. The participants' level overall-state perception on flow was measured with the Flow State Scale and their flow states were monitored throughout the learning activity. Finally, participants' perceptions of benefits and difficulties of using the augmented reality application in this study were qualitatively identified. The results showed that the augmented reality approach was more effective in promoting students' knowledge of electromagnetic concepts and phenomena. The analysis also indicated that the augmented reality application led participants to reach higher flow experience levels than those achieved by users of the web-based application. However, not all the factors seem to have influence on learners' flow state, this study found that they were limited to: concentration, distorted sense of time, sense of control, clearer direct feedback, and autotelic experience. A deeper analysis of the flow process showed that neither of the groups reported being in flow in those tasks that were very easy or too difficult. However, for those tasks that were not perceived as difficult and included visualization clues, the experimental group showed higher levels of flow that the control group. The study suggests that augmented reality can be exploited as an effective learning environment for learning the basic principles of electromagnetism at high school provided that learning designers strike a careful balance between AR support and task difficulty. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Age-related impairments during spatial navigation have been widely reported in egocentric and allocentric paradigms. However, the effect of age on more specific navigational components such as the ability to drive or update directional information has not received enough attention. In this study we investigated the effect of age on spatial updating of a visual target after a series of whole-body rotations and transitions using a novel landmark-less virtual reality (VR) environment. Moreover, a significant number of previous studies focused on measures susceptible to a general decline in motor skills such as the spent time navigating, the distance traversed. The current paper proposes a new compound spatial measure to assess navigational performance, examines its reliability and compares its power with those of the measures of duration and traversed distance in predicting participants' age and cognitive groups assessed by Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scores. Using data from 319 adults (20-83 years), our results confirm the reliability, the age sensitivity, and the cognitive validity of the designed spatial measure as well as its superiority to the measures of duration and traversed distance in predicting age and MoCA score. In addition, the results show the significant effect of age cognitive status on spatial updating.

Eight out of the top ten the largest technology companies in the world are involved in some way with the coming mobile VR revolution since Facebook acquired Oculus. This trend has allowed the technology related with mobile VR to achieve remarkable growth in both academic and industry. Therefore, the importance of reproducing the acoustic expression for users to experience more realistic is increasing because auditory cues can enhance the perception of the complicated surrounding environment without the visual system in VR. This paper presents a audio downmixing system for auralization based on hardware, a stage of sound rendering pipelines that can reproduce realiy-like sound but requires high computation costs. The proposed system is verified through an FPGA platform with the special focus on hardware architectural designs for low power and real-time. The results show that the proposed system on an FPGA can downmix maximum 5 sources in real-time rate (52 FPS), with 382 mW low power consumptions. Furthermore, the generated 3D sound with the proposed system was verified with satisfactory results of sound quality via the user evaluation.

Concepts for user interfaces are developed in order to enable humans exchanging information and having a better understanding of different processes. With the rise of technology, concepts of enriching our environments with computer-generated graphics appeared in the 1960s. The expansion of visual perception of the surrounding is the core of Augmented Reality (AR). Many AR applications have been appearing in different areas, opening the door for revolutionizing and changing interactivity models and the way people perform tasks. Even though AR systems' structures are well defined, applications are not yet widespread. One of the main reasons for this is that AR system developers face difficulties with developing their applications and adapting them to different hardware. Each hardware set (i.e. AR device) requires different software development kits and different technical requirements. That leaves AR concepts hard to be scaled and implemented in real life scenarios. One more additional challenge facing the implementing of AR is that AR mostly relies on complex vision-based algorithms. Based on that, this paper explores a lightweight, modular, and cross-platform solution. It presents a novel framework based on redesigning the AR pipeline, introducing a prototype of a solution where AR can operate within the cloud, converting all AR devices into thin clients with high performance capability. This also contributes directly to the Industry 4.0 aim of preparing the way for digitalized and optimized processes in a connected and integrated network.

Virtual cognitions (VCs) are a stream of simulated thoughts people hear while emerged in a virtual environment, e.g. by hearing a simulated inner voice presented as a voice over. They can enhance people's self-efficacy and knowledge about, for example, social interactions as previous studies have shown. Ownership and plausibility of these VCs are regarded as important for their effect, and enhancing both might, therefore, be beneficial. A potential strategy for achieving this is the synchronization of the VCs with people's eye fixation using eye-tracking technology embedded in a head-mounted display. Hence, this paper tests this idea in the context of a pre-therapy for spider and snake phobia to examine the ability to guide people's eye fixation. An experiment with 24 participants was conducted using a within-subjects design. Each participant was exposed to two conditions: one where the VCs were adapted to eye gaze of the participant and the other where they were not adapted, i.e. the control condition. The findings of a Bayesian analysis suggest that credibly more ownership was reported and more eye-gaze shift behaviour was observed in the eye-gaze-adapted condition than in the control condition. Compared to the alternative of no or negative mediation, the findings also give some more credibility to the hypothesis that ownership, at least partly, positively mediates the effect eye-gaze-adapted VCs have on eye-gaze shift behaviour. Only weak support was found for plausibility as a mediator. These findings help improve insight into how VCs affect people. RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS Eye-gaze-adaptive VCs have a positive effect on people's perceived ownership of the VCs. Eye-gaze-adaptive VCs have a positive effect on the numbers of eye-gaze shifts after hearing an instructional VC. The effect of eye-gaze-adaptive VCs on user's eye-gaze behaviour is partially mediated by the user's ownership of VCs.

Access to safe, green urban environments is important for quality of life in cities. The objective of this study is to explore the impact of a safety-enhancing landscape design measure on visitors' experiences in an urban park. Additionally, this paper combines the use of field and virtual reality (VR) experiments, contributing methodological insights into how to evaluate safety measures in green space management and research on perceived safety. In a field experiment (n = 266), we explored whether the height of a hedge along a pathway influenced perceived safety among users. The field study showed that cutting down the hedge improved the perceived prospect of the immediate surrounding areas for female users, which again made them feel safer in the park. We developed a VR experiment for an evening scenario in the same environment (n = 19) to supplement the field study and test the effect of the intervention further. The VR experiment also found a gender effect on perceived safety, with females reporting lower perceived safety, but no effect was shown for the height of the hedge. The results in this study show that environmental attributes such as perceived prospect and concealment should be considered in the design and management of urban green spaces. Additionally, this research demonstrates an approach to conducting field experiments to test the effects of actual design interventions and then further developing these experiments using VR technology. Further research on perceived safety in outdoor spaces is needed to make use of this combined method's potential.

This paper presents the implementation and evaluation of a 50,000-pose-sample-per-second, 6-degree-of-freedom optical head tracking instrument with motion-to-pose latency of 28 mu s and dynamic precision of 1-2 arcminutes. The instrument uses high-intensity infrared emitters and two duo-lateral photodiode-based optical sensors to triangulate pose. This instrument serves two purposes: it is the first step towards the requisite head tracking component in sub-100 mu s motion-to-photon latency optical see-through augmented reality (OST AR) head-mounted display (HMD) systems; and it enables new avenues of research into human visual perception - including measuring the thresholds for perceptible real-virtual displacement during head rotation and other human research requiring high-sample-rate motion tracking. The instrument's tracking volume is limited to about 120x120x250mm but allows for the full range of natural head rotation and is sufficient for research involving seated users. We discuss how the instrument's tracking volume is scalable in multiple ways and some of the trade-offs involved therein. Finally, we introduce a novel laser-pointer-based measurement technique for assessing the instrument's tracking latency and repeatability. We show that the instrument's motion-to-pose latency is 28 mu s and that it is repeatable within 1-2 arcminutes at mean rotational velocities (yaw) in excess of 500 degrees/sec.

Background Cancer care can negatively impact children's subjective well-being. In this research, well-being refers to patients' self-perception and encompasses their hospital and care delivery assessment. Playful strategies can stimulate treatment compliance and have been used to provide psychosocial support and health education; they can involve gamification, virtual reality, robotics, and healthcare environments. This study aims to identify how playfulness, whenever applicable, can be used as a strategy to improve the subjective well-being of pediatric cancer patients in the Brazilian Unified Health System. Methods Sixteen volunteers with experience in pediatric oncology participated in the study. They were physicians, psychologists, child life specialists, and design thinking professionals. They engaged in design thinking workshops to propose playful strategies to improve the well-being of pediatric cancer patients in the Brazilian Unified Health System. Data collection consisted of participatory observations. All activities were video recorded and analyzed through Thematic Analysis. The content generated by the volunteers was classified into two categories: impact of cancer care on children's self-perception and children's perceptions of the hospital and the care delivery. Results Volunteers developed strategies to help children deal with time at the hospital, hospital structure, and care delivery. Such strategies are not limited to using playfulness as a way of "having fun"; they privilege ludic interfaces, such as toys, to support psychosocial care and health education. They aim to address cancer and develop communication across families and staff in a humanized manner, educate families about the disease, and design children-friendly environments. Volunteers also generated strategies to help children cope with perceptions of death, pain, and their bodies. Such strategies aim to support understanding the meaning of life and death, comprehend pain beyond physicality, help re-signify cancer and children's changing bodies, and give patients active voices during the treatment. Conclusions The paper proposes strategies that can improve the well-being of pediatric cancer patients in the Brazilian Unified Health System. Such strategies connect children's experiences as inpatients and outpatients and may inform the implementation of similar projects in other developing countries.

Projection-based stereoscopic wall displays allow users to immerse themselves into virtual scenes, such as architecture simulations or games. However, the usually low resolution (dpi) of such displays and slight alignment offsets between the two projectors result in a loss of detail and bad readability of textual information. We propose addressing the problem by overlaying a third projector, so that its image is visible to both eyes. We eliminate offset artifacts by extracting 2D contents from the scene and rendering it using this dedicated "2D projector". In addition, we locally increase resolution by focusing the 2D projector onto a smaller region. This allows us to reduce the size of overlaid 2D annotations, thereby reducing interference with the 3D scene. In our paper, we describe the design of our display system called,five. Following, we present two detailed user Studies that compare five with an overview-and-detail and a pan-and-zoom interface.

Touch interactions are central to many human activities, but there are few technologies for computationally augmenting free-hand interactions with real environments. Here, we describe Tactile Echoes, a finger-wearable system for augmenting touch interactions with physical objects. This system captures and processes touch-elicited vibrations in real-time in order to enliven tactile experiences. In this article, we process these signals via a parametric signal processing network in order to generate responsive tactile and auditory feedback. Just as acoustic echoes are produced through the delayed replication and modification of sounds, so are Tactile Echoes produced through transformations of vibrotactile inputs in the skin. The echoes also reflect the contact interactions and touched objects involved. A transient tap produces discrete echoes, while a continuous slide yields sustained feedback. We also demonstrate computational and spatial tracking methods that allow these effects to be selectively assigned to different objects or actions. A large variety of distinct multisensory effects can be designed via ten processing parameters. We investigated how Tactile Echoes are perceived in several perceptual experiments using multidimensional scaling methods. This allowed us to deduce low-dimensional, semantically grounded perceptual descriptions. We present several virtual and augmented reality applications of Tactile Echoes. In a user study, we found that these effects made interactions more responsive and engaging. Our findings show how to endow a large variety of touch interactions with expressive multisensory effects.

Objective. The purpose of this case study was to investigate multimodal perceptual coherence in speech perception in an exceptionally good postlingually deafened cochlear implant user. His ability to perceive sinewave replicas of spoken sentences, and the extent to which he integrated sensory information from multimodal sources was compared with a group of adult normal-hearing listeners to determine the contribution of natural auditory quality in the use of electrocochlear stimulation. Design: The patient, "Mr. S," transcribed sinewave sentences of natural speech under audio-only (AO), visual-only (VO), and audio-visual (A+V) conditions. His performance was compared with the data collected from 25 normal-hearing adults. Results: Although normal-hearing participants performed better than Mr. S for AO sentences (65% versus 53% syllables correct), Mr. S was superior for VO sentences (43% versus 18%). For A+V sentences, Mr. S's performance was comparable with the normal-hearing group (90% versus 86%). An estimate of the amount of visual enhancement, R, obtained from seeing the talker's face showed that Mr. S derived a larger gain from the additional visual information than the normal-hearing controls (78% versus 59%). Conclusions: The findings from this case study of an exceptionally good cochlear implant user suggest that he is perceiving the sinewave sentences on the basis of coherent variation from multimodal sensory inputs, and not on the basis of lipreading ability alone. Electrocochlear stimulation is evidently useful in multimodal contexts because it preserves dynamic speech-like variation, despite the absence of speech-like auditory qualities.

Mental rotation, a common measure of spatial ability, has traditionally been assessed through paper-based instruments like the Mental Rotation Test (MRT) or the Purdue Spatial Visualization Test: Rotations (PSVT:R). The fact that these instruments present 3D shapes in a 2D format devoid of natural cues like shading and perspective likely limits their ability to accurately assess the fundamental skill of mentally rotating 3D shapes. In this paper, we describe the Virtual Reality Mental Rotation Assessment (VRMRA), a virtual reality-based mental rotation assessment derived from the Revised PSVT:R and MRT. The VRMRA reimagines traditional mental rotation assessments in a room-scale virtual environment and uses hand-tracking and elements of gamification in attempts to create an intuitive, engaging experience for test-takers. To validate the instrument, we compared response patterns in the VRMRA with patterns observed on the MRT and Revised PSVT:R. For the PSVT:Rtype questions, items requiring a rotation around two axes were significantly harder than items requiring rotations around a single axis in the VRMRA, which is not the case in the Revised PSVT:R. For the MRT-type questions in the VRMRA, a moderate negative correlation was found between the degree of rotation in the X direction and item difficulty. While the problem of occlusion was reduced, features of the shapes and distractors accounted for 50.6% of the variance in item difficulty. Results suggest that the VRMRA is likely a more accurate tool to assess mental rotation ability in comparison to traditional instruments which present the stimuli through 2D media. Our findings also point to potential problems with the fundamental designs of the Revised PSVT:R and MRT question formats.

Urban Air Mobility (UAM) has the potential to revolutionize the way we travel. As transportation evolves, passenger drones, also known as air taxis, are poised to integrate into our daily mobility routines. Ensuring the overall safety of these aerial vehicles through air traffic certification and operational air traffic control is paramount. It is crucial to identify and evaluate problematic scenarios that may arise during operation, particularly their impact on passenger acceptance and user experience (UX). Critical situations can emerge, potentially causing passenger distress and, in worst-case scenarios, posing safety risks. Due to their lower flight weight and altitude, turbulence plays a significantly more prominent role for these vehicles compared to larger passenger aircraft. To address this issue, we have undertaken a virtual reality study designed to explore turbulence experiences during flight. This research primarily concentrates on evaluating passengers' safety perceptions and examining the efficacy of various mitigation and calming strategies. These strategies include but are not limited to, breathing exercises and the deployment of a supportive avatar. The study aims to gain a deeper understanding of passenger responses to in-flight turbulence and to assess the potential of these interventions to enhance passenger comfort and safety. Preliminary findings indicate that calming animations and breathing exercises can have a positive impact on passengers' perception of safety. The insights gained from this research aim to contribute to the development of support measures for all types of critical flight situations.

IntroductionLabor represents the most common reason for hospitalization, and most patients will use some form of pain management during their labor. While some studies have suggested that virtual reality (VR) may be an effective option for managing pain, more study is necessary to understand the patient experience of VR. The aim of this study is to characterize the effect of VR on patient perceptions of coping in labor and their descriptions of the VR experience. MethodologyA nested prospective, descriptive study within a randomized controlled trial of VR in laboring patients. We included nulliparous, term patients, having contractions at least every 5 min, a pain score on the Wong-Baker pain scale of 4-7, and who had been randomized to receive the 30 min virtual reality intervention in the trial. Subjects completed a childbirth self-efficacy inventory prior to the intervention. After the intervention, they completed a modified childbirth self-efficacy inventory related to VR and underwent a structured interview. Self-efficacy scores were compared using t-tests and qualitative, thematic analysis was performed using Dedoose. ResultsTwenty-one subjects received the VR intervention. Twenty subjects completed the post-intervention survey and structured interview; one declined due to discomfort. Subjects noted a significant increase in perceived degree to which VR could improve their self-efficacy in managing pain during labor. Thematic analysis revealed that subjects described the VR experience as allowing them to connect with their breathing, feeling more relaxed, and being distracted from pain. In total, 70% believed VR reduced their pain, 60% felt it reduced their anxiety, and 100% would recommend VR availability for laboring patients. ConclusionVR can improve patient self-efficacy for managing pain in labor. Future studies should focus on the content of the visualizations, optimized user experience and design, and effectiveness with ongoing exposure to VR content in labor.

In recent years, chemistry educators are increasingly adopting immersive virtual reality (IVR) technology to help learners visualise molecular interactions. However, educational studies on IVR mostly investigated its usability and user perceptions leaving out its impact on improving conceptual understanding. If they evaluated students' knowledge gains, they tended to use information recall tests to assess knowledge gains. Employing interviews and diagram-drawing tasks, this study explored how students' conceptual understanding of the nature of hydrogen bonds and the shape of snowflakes changed through a collaborative IVR experience on snowflakes. Participants were 68 undergraduate chemistry students. Videos of pre-/post-interviews and student-generated diagrams were analysed. The results indicated a marked improvement in students' conceptual understanding of the nature of hydrogen bonds among water molecules in snowflakes. After IVR, 57 students provided scientifically acceptable explanations of the nature of hydrogen bonds. Improvements in students' understanding were related to the intermolecular nature of hydrogen bonds, the role of lone pairs of electrons in forming hydrogen bonds, and molecular interactions in 3D space. This study suggests that collaborative IVR could be a powerful way for students to visualise molecular interactions, examine their alternative conceptions, and build more coherent understanding. Implications for the design and implementation of IVR activities for science learning are discussed.

Increasingly, people are replacing soft drinks with natural fruit juices, since soft drinks usually contain excessive sugar and little nutrition. This paper introduces a multimodal digital taste control system 'D'Licious Vessel' and the respective prototypes. The goal is to provide a digital solution to health concerns regarding overuse of sugar in our daily drinks by decreasing the natural sourness. The system applies gentle electrical signals to a person's tongue to trigger different taste sensations and improve the taste of drinks digitally without involving consumption of actual chemicals. We conducted user studies in a public setting to collect the experimental data and to find the system's effectiveness in improving the taste of lemon juice. During the study, participants were provided with lemon juice and asked to compare the taste difference while drinking with different settings of the taste stimulation prototype. Their opinions for different prototype designs are recorded and discussed.

Interpreting blood gas analysis results can be challenging for the clinician, especially in stressful situations under time pressure. To foster fast and correct interpretation of blood gas results, we developed Visual Blood. This computer-based, multicentre, noninferiority study compared Visual Blood and conventional arterial blood gas (ABG) printouts. We presented six scenarios to anaesthesiologists, once with Visual Blood and once with the conventional ABG printout. The primary outcome was ABG parameter perception. The secondary outcomes included correct clinical diagnoses, perceived diagnostic confidence, and perceived workload. To analyse the results, we used mixed models and matched odds ratios. Analysing 300 within-subject cases, we showed noninferiority of Visual Blood compared to ABG printouts concerning the rate of correctly perceived ABG parameters (rate ratio, 0.96; 95% CI, 0.92-1.00; p = 0.06). Additionally, the study revealed two times higher odds of making the correct clinical diagnosis using Visual Blood (OR, 2.16; 95% CI, 1.42-3.29; p < 0.001) than using ABG printouts. There was no or, respectively, weak evidence for a difference in diagnostic confidence (OR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.58-1.21; p = 0.34) and perceived workload (Coefficient, 2.44; 95% CI, -0.09-4.98; p = 0.06). This study showed that participants did not perceive the ABG parameters better, but using Visual Blood resulted in more correct clinical diagnoses than using conventional ABG printouts. This suggests that Visual Blood allows for a higher level of situation awareness beyond individual parameters' perception. However, the study also highlighted the limitations of today's virtual reality headsets and Visual Blood.

Along with the improvement of eye-tracking technology, more and more distinct field of researches have introduced movements of the eye in relation to the head to understand user behavior. Most of current researches focus on the perception process of single 2-dimensional images by fixed eye-tracking devices or the head-mount devices. A method of applying eye-tracking on the analysis of the interaction between users and objects in 3D navigational space is proposed in this article. It aims to understand the visual stimulation of 3D objects and the user's spatial navigational reactions while receiving the stimulation, and proposes the concept of 3D object attention heat map. It also proposes to construct a computational visual attention model for different geometric featured 3D objects by applying the method of feature curves. The VR results of this study also provide future assistance in the incoming immersive world. This study sets to promote eye-tracking from the mainstream of 2D field to 3D spaces and points to a deeper understanding between human and artificial product or natural objects. It would also serve an important role in the field of human-computer interaction, product usability, aids devices for cognition degenerative individuals, and even the field of visual recognition of daily human behavior.

This paper presents the design and validation of an ungrounded haptic augmented reality system that alters the roughness and friction of a rigid 3-D object. The user touches the object via a custom haptic stylus; the stylus tip is a ball mounted in a socket that has low internal friction and produces minimal vibrations, necessary conditions for creating a haptically clean interaction. We determine contact position and force using a six-axis force/torque sensor beneath the object. The object's apparent roughness and kinetic friction are altered using haptic models that we previously created from real tool-surface interaction data. The textural roughness model generates a vibration waveform in real time, which is played through a voice coil actuator. A solenoid inside the stylus applies a braking force to the ball for friction rendering. The friction model continually controls the solenoid current, setting the effective kinetic friction coefficient between the stylus tip and object surface to values between 0.20 and 0.52. Analysis of commanded and displayed haptic signals verifies that this system accurately overlays the modeled roughness and friction on the object's geometry, providing a significantly better match than the same models rendered using a Phantom Omni.

Objective: This research aims to investigate the effectiveness of wayfinding information (destination reference images) in real-time complex environmental settings through the syntheses of mobile and static information sources. This investigation will help in improving the wayfinding information design for complex institutional environments which will enhance the environmental legibility. Background: Complex environments are challenging for wayfinding efficiency. Identification of the location and orientation are considered to be important for wayfinding efficiency. This study investigated the user behavior in synthesizing the wayfinding information for identifying the users' location and orientation in a complex environment. Method: Twenty-five university students have participated in the desktop-based virtual reality experiment. Five experimental conditions were developed for the assessment of wayfinding efficiency and users' preferred information sources. Results: Reference images of destinations with user-matched angles were found more effective than the building's facade images. Participants synthesized the mobile wayfinding information with real environmental information to identify their location and orientation. Real environment information (road intersections and shape of the road) and mobile information (reference images of building facades) were found influential in the identification of the user's location and orientation. Conclusions: The study suggested a need for thorough investigation regarding the users' wayfinding behavior with different types of environmental information. Future studies have been recommended to investigate other complex institutional environments with larger sample groups for enhancing environmental legibility and institutional efficiency.

In this paper, we propose a system for training of stroke patients with unilateral neglect by using technology of virtual reality (VR). The proposed system is designed to compensate for unilateral neglect. This system contains the calibration of unilateral neglect and the training of this disease. The calibration procedure is implemented by aligning the virtual object at a subjective middle line. The training procedure is implemented by completing the missions that are used to keep the virtual avatar safe during crossing the street in a virtual environment. The results of this study show that the proposed system is effective to train unilateral neglect. The left to right ratio scores extracted from this system gradually decrease as the sessions of training are repeated. To validate the VR system parameters, the parameters are analyzed by correlation with those of traditional unilateral neglect assessment methods ( such as the line bisection test and the cancellation test).

There exists a multitude of online video tutorials to teach physical movements such as exercises. Yet, users lack support to verify the accuracy of their movements when following such videos and have to rely on their own perception. To address this, we developed a web-based application that performs human pose estimation using both video inputs from the online video and web camera, then provides different types of visual feedback to a user. Our study suggests that a user's skeleton overlaid on the user's camera feed improves user performance, whereas a user's skeleton on its own or trainer's skeleton with the trainer video offered limited benefits. Our application demonstrates the potential to enhance learning physical movements from online videos and provides a basis for other guidance systems to design suitable visualizations.

In this paper, we present a real time on-line augmented/diminished reality system that runs entirely on the hand-held moving mobile device. Specifically, we introduce an improved inpainting algorithm that is designed for the on-line usage (i.e., live streaming video) with the moving view point. Unlike other previous approaches, the proposed algorithm produces a reasonably high-quality inpainting imagery by taking advantage of the 3D camera tracking and scene information from the SLAM in selecting the proper source frame from which to extract the parts to replace the masked region, and robustly applying homography to fill it in from the source. The algorithm is evaluated and compared with the state-of-the-art video inpainting methods in terms of the execution time, and objective and subjective inpainted image quality. Although the algorithm is applicable to any dynamic objects, the current implementation is limited to removing and filling in for human figures only. The evaluation results have shown the quality of the inpainted image quality was on par with those by the off-line state-of-the-art systems and yet ran at an interactive rate on a mobile device. A user study was also conducted to assess the user perception and experience in an outdoor interactive AR application using the proposed algorithm to remove the interfering pedestrians. The algorithm significantly reduced the level of distraction and improved the AR user experience by lowering the visual inconsistency and artifacts, when compared to other nominal test conditions. Z8 0

in a series of three experiments, participants were asked to match the sizes of spheres presented in the haptic and visual modalities. Stimuli were either real or virtual. Real spheres were sets of ball bearings of various sizes that could be both viewed and touched. Virtual spheres were presented using a Phantom for the haptic presentations or a 4D screen for the visual presentations. Comparing the judgements made within sensory modalities, virtual spheres of a given size were perceived as significantly larger than their real counterparts for vision, but not for haptics. Across modalities, virtual haptic spheres were perceived as significantly larger than their virtual visual counterparts, while there was no significant difference in the judged size of real visual and real haptic spheres. The results have implications for the design of virtual environments where it cannot be assumed that the sizes of objects as depicted by their designers will be perceived in identical fashion across modalities.

Purpose Rapid advancements in augmented reality (AR) technology have created new opportunities for service providers and customers to cocreate value. Using AR as a platform for generating authentic experiences, the purpose of this study is to explore the impact of authentic experiences on customers' intention to cocreate value while considering the mediating influence of perceived ethics and customer engagement on this relationship. Design/methodology/approach An online survey was used to collect data. Participants were asked to download and try the "IKEA PLACE" AR application. The responses were used as inputs into a structural equation model. Findings The findings reveal that AR generates perceptions of authentic experiences but no direct relationship between authentic experiences and intention to cocreate value was found. On the other hand, the authentic experiences generated through AR increases customer perceptions of ethics and customer engagement, both of which lead to an increased intention to cocreate value. Originality/value The findings from this study highlight the importance of authentic experiences within the cocreation process. The results provide a unique understanding of the relationship between authentic experiences generated through AR technology on the intention to cocreate with the service provider, which is fully mediated by perceived ethics and customer engagement. The findings of this study extend the understanding of the cocreation process and the role of technology within this process.

As networks become increasingly complex, professionals must familiarise themselves with the cabling rack to administer the network effectively. In line with this industry goal, we compared the usability, task load and perceptions of three similar network cabling tutoring systems: (1) a hand-held Augmented Reality (AR)-based cabling tutor (HAR); (2) a head-mounted AR-based cabling tutor (HMD) and (3) a 2-Dimensional (2D)-based cabling tutor (HH). While usability of different modalities have been compared previously, none of those comparisons used knowledge modelling approaches. So, in our comparison, each tutor uses knowledge space modelling (KSM) approaches to detect learner mistakes and show arrows on the rack to indicate the source of the mistake. While adding an AR sub-system to a network cabling tablet-based tutor may not necessarily improve usability, participants reported higher engagement over the AR hand held tablet when using the Head-Mounted Display (HMD) condition. Several potential reasons were identified to account for the side effect such as the potential for the AR sub-system to potentially influence learning perceptions; the additional physical effort of needing to point the tablet at the rack and perceived performance degradation.

Augmented Footwear has become an increasingly common research area. However, as this is a comparatively new direction in HCI, researchers and designers are not able to build upon common platforms. We discuss the design space of shoes for augmented tactile reality, focussing on physiological and biomechanical factors aswell as technical considerations. We present an open source example implementation from this space, intended as an experimental platform for vibrotactile rendering and tactile AR and provide details on experiences that could be evoked with such a system. Anecdotally, the new prototype provided experiences of material properties like compliance, as well as altered perception of their movements and agency. We intend our work to lower the barrier of entry for new researchers and to support the field of tactile rendering in footwear in general by making it easier to compare results between studies.

To face innovation challenges of the twenty-first century, companies should learn from proven successful strategies and draw on technological evolutions as well. Our proposal consists in aligning ideation to innovation strategies through the use of avatars in a virtual world. On the basis of the Persona method and the Proteus effect, we design avatars' appearance so as to implement a Need-seeker or a Technology-driver innovation strategy. To test the effectiveness of this avatar-mediated innovation tool, we conducted an experiment in a French company. Two groups of highly qualified employees from the innovation department had to find applications for smart windows in public transportation. Both groups experienced immersion in a virtual transportation situation: one group embodied avatars resembling Inventors, whereas the other group embodied Personas representing users of public transportation. As expected, avatars' appearance proved to influence the creative production: the Inventor condition led to a techno-centered ideation profile, oriented toward technological solutions, while the Persona condition led to more user-centered, needs-oriented ideas. Consistently, Inventors' production tended to be better evaluated through industrial criteria and Personas' production tended to be better evaluated by transportation users. We discuss the use of avatar-mediated creativity as a strategic tool for companies seeking to innovate. Z8 0

Latest improvement on mobile devices capabilities definitively changed the way people experience their surroundings. Thanks to the improvement of built in sensors, devices are able to sense the environment at users' location. The ability to provide contextual services to the visitors is a key aspect to make public parks more accessible, comprehensible end enjoyable. The paper outlines the application of Augmented Reality technologies in a real case scenario. The aim is to equip visitors with an ICT tool able to enhance their perception visiting open spaces and parks. The reporting area chosen for the study case is an Archaeological park, the Cardeto, located within an urban green open space in the outskirts of Ancona, a city in central Italy. Ensuring the success of the experiment has required an hybrid approach, with the main objective of providing visitors with an endless flow of information, anytime and anywhere. To reach this result, a mobile application has been developed, exploiting two different tracking systems: location- based and edge- based. The first one helps users to move along with a network of given Points of Interest disseminated within the park. At the same time, the second system displays a rich set of information each time a user came in close the proximity with artefacts or valuable heritages. This work is part of a wider ongoing project aiming at a better understanding of the potentials inherent the design space for smartphones in context- aware AR applications for tourists. Our experiment demonstrates the validity of purposed methodology as a promising solution for Cultural Heritage purposes.

This study aims to understand the impacts of Pokemon GO, a popular location-based augmented reality (AR) mobile gaming app, on route and mode choices. Pokemon GO leverages AR to introduce virtual objects at fixed and dynamic locations that translate through the app interface to incentives in the real world that potentially influence users' route and mode choices. Its gaming nature and social components can possibly enhance long-term user engagement through applying the characteristics of game elements and providing opportunities for competition, collaboration, companionship, and social reinforcement. An online survey is conducted to collect the self-reported behavior of a group of Pokemon GO users to explore its impacts on the following aspects of travel behavior: (1) the frequency of changing the route to interact with virtual objects; (2) the likelihood of carpooling more instead of driving alone for more in-app collaboration; and (3) the likelihood of shifting mode from drive alone to public transit, walking, and cycling if provided with additional incentives. The ordered survey responses including frequency and likelihood are analyzed using random parameters ordered probit models to account for the unobserved heterogeneity across users and identify subpopulations of travelers who are more susceptible to the influence of Pokemon GO. The modeling results identify four types of variables (attitude and perceptions related to Pokemon GO, app engagement, play style, and sociodemographic characteristics) that affect users' travel behavior. The results illustrate that such apps with integrated AR, gamification, and social components can be used by policymakers to influence various aspects of travel behavior. The study findings and insights can provide valuable feedback to system operators for designing such apps to dynamically manage traffic in real-time and promote long-term sustainable mode shifts.

A novel mobile interface for physical interaction with extended real or virtual environments is presented, which frees the operator from being bound to a stationary kinesthetic work station. As a result the operator's unrestricted natural walking is now available as input to the locomotion control of the teleoperator or the avatar. Hence, the operator is enabled to use proprioceptive perception of locomotion, which is a basic requirement for navigation and wayfinding. To allow unrestricted locomotion in the local environment, the first new idea is to have the haptic interface, which is neccessary for physical interaction, move along with the operator. This could be achieved by using a portable kinesthetic interface, which, however, is not capable of displaying large external forces. Hence, the second new idea is to use a mobile haptic interface, which actively follows the operator's locomotion. The corresponding locomotion platform is continuously positioned in such a way that maximum manipulability is guaranteed. In order to accomplish this under the kinematic and dynamic restrictions of the wheel-based platform, the operator's intention of locomotion is predicted. A prototype telepresence system for kinesthetic exploration of extended virtual environments has been designed according to the proposed paradigm, implemented, and tested.

Despite the acknowledged promises of adopting technologies such as BIM and AR, research addressing the challenges and opportunities of such synergies in cost and schedule risk management is still limited. This paper contributes to the literature by presenting an integrated, proactive BIM-Augmented Reality (AR) risk management system enabling an online inspection of project cost and schedule risks. This system records the actual risk data (e.g., risk type and likelihood) using AR on commercial smartphones, runs an online Risk Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (RFMEA), and updates the project's BIM model to provide informed risk-related solutions. A case study is provided to demonstrate the implementation of the proposed system in a real project. Despite the challenges cited in the post-implementation survey (e.g., system ergonomics and synchronizations of automated/non-automated subsystems), 67% of the users acknowledged the improvement in cost and schedule risk management owing to enhancement in communication, timeliness, and risk perception.

Information and digital technologies have revolutionized research methodologies for measuring people's perceptions of built environments. Vast amounts of urban data can now be collected, providing more accurate and intuitive presentation and analysis tools. This enhances the research on the built environment from a human-centered perspective. In this paper, with the help of the CiteSpace knowledge map analysis tool, manual deep intervention was combined with clustering and stratified sampling of literature information to identify hot topics and research trends. The results demonstrate that there are two new perspectives. The first is the up-bottom urban/group perspective, specifically a holistic study of group perceptions by large-scale data, represented by big data, with technologies such as artificial intelligence. The second is the bottom-up humanistic/individual perspective, which accurately examines individual perceptions through physiological data based on ergonomics techniques, psychological, and other small-scale data. Furthermore, these two perspectives are interconnected, indicating a cross-trend in both directions. By bridging the gap between subjective perception and the real-world environment, integrating multi-source data offers a more precise and efficient foundation for thoroughly evaluating the built environment, which would help us better understand the built environment and satisfy the users' demands in the research and practice of urban design. [GRAPHICS]

Purpose This paper aims to explore the virtual experience to understand its components and its effects on consumers' real world. Design/methodology/approach Our approach relies on a rarely used projective method: "Album-on-Line" (AOL). This technique allows identifying consumers' representations of their experience. It uses images to immerse participants in a virtual experience and to lead an individual reflection, then a group reflection. Findings Virtual experiences have utilitarian, hedonic, psychological and social dimensions. When immersing in virtual experiences, consumers' perception and consumption of products and services change. A projection occurs leading to an identification to virtual characters. This projection also leads to a consumption aiming at finding back the excitement and challenge lived during virtual experiences. Originality/value Compared to previous work, the present research offers a better understanding of the components of online and offline virtual experiences by considering the virtual in its broadest meaning. The use of the AOL technique enabled a closer look at the specificities of the virtual experience as perceived by consumers. It was also possible to explore the "post-experience" stage by understanding the effect of virtual experiences on consumers' perceptions and consumptions.

Time delay is recognized as an important issue in haptic telepresence systems as it is inherent to long-distance data transmission. What factors influence haptic delay perception in a time-delayed environment are, however, largely unknown. In this article, we examine the impact of manual movement frequency and amplitude in a sinusoidal exploratory movement as well as the stiffness of the haptic environment on the detection threshold for delay in haptic feedback. The results suggest that the detection of delay in force feedback depends on the movement frequency and amplitude, while variation of the absolute feedback force level does not influence the detection threshold. A model based on the exploration movement is proposed and guidelines for system design with respect to the time delay in haptic feedback are provided. Z8 1

Digital communication technologies are rapidly evolving, and understanding their impact on group dynamics and cognitive performance in professional settings becomes central. This study investigates the psychological impact of different interaction settings-two-dimensional Video Conferencing (VC), Face-To-Face (FTF), and Virtual Reality (VR)-on group dynamics, cognitive performance, and aspects of well-being in a professional context. Utilizing a sample of 40 participants from a large Italian electricity transmission company, the study employs a within-subjects design to explore various metrics, including flow, creativity, fatigue and aspects of interaction. The results indicate that FTF interactions are optimal for idea generation and task absorption. VR, although initially more fatiguing for first-time users, fosters a more collaborative and peaceful environment, encouraging participants to engage more openly with each other. VC was found to be the least fatiguing, but also the least engaging in terms of task absorption and idea generation. Additionally, age-related differences were observed, particularly in the perception of motivational and emotional fatigue in the VR setting. The study provides empirical evidence supporting the integration of VR in professional settings for specific types of meetings, while also highlighting the limitations and areas for future research. These findings have implications for organizational well-being, cognitive ergonomics, and the evolving landscape of remote work technologies.

Serious games for health are those that are not aimed solely at entertainment, but rather at supporting health treatments. In this paper, we develop and assess the proposal of a Virtual Reality (VR) game aimed at supporting Sensory Processing Disorder (SPD) treatment. SPD is a condition which affects the integration and processing of the various stimuli coming from inside and outside of the body and its treatment involves providing patients with controlled sensory stimuli. Our goal is to investigate whether a Virtual Reality game that can stimulate different sensory systems could be useful in SPD treatment. In order to do so, we have designed and developed Imaginator, a VR Roller Coaster Game connected with a Head Mounted-Display (HMD) which can be customized by therapists to adjust its stimuli to different patients' needs in therapy. Imaginator was assessed by five occupational therapists through its use in their treatment sessions. Each therapist had the game available in their therapy environment for around 2-3 weeks. They were instructed to use the game whenever they thought it could be interesting to a patient's treatment. After the trial period, they were interviewed about their experience in using the game and their perception of its impact in therapy sessions. Our results show that therapists in general perceived Imaginator as having a positive effects in patients' treatment. They noticed that it was able to stimulate different senses, and they reported that in some cases it was able to help patients relax, increase their concentration and even work as an encouragement to explore similar activities in the physical world. There were a few patients who experienced some adverse reactions, such as nausea, but nothing that they felt was worrying or that could prevent the game from being used.

As educators in Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) domains seek to better prepare graduates for industry, providing authentic, hands-on design and construction experiences has been found to be one of the most effective ways of achieving the goal of educators. However, providing access to these experiences is costly, time-consuming, and resource-intensive, which limit access for most students. To explore a cost-effective alternative to hands-on AEC learning, augmented reality (AR) is considered as a simulation of authentic learning in these domains. In this study, a full-scale building redesign and construction experience is presented, in which students virtually perform design analysis, planning, and construction of renovations to an existing structure in an AR environment. As students participate in the simulation, they reflect on their process and the realism of the experience. Student behaviors and perceptions are analyzed to determine where the experience showed evidence of authentic learning characteristics and where the experience differs from traditional authentic learning. Ultimately, the results indicate strong evidence that this AR-enabled design and construction experience promotes higher-level thinking, with mixed results on which components of the experience felt realistic or unrealistic. These findings suggest that, with informed and intentional use, AR has a high potential to simulate authentic learning and achieve high-value, evidence-based learning outcomes. Educators may find these results useful in adopting AR as a tool for simulating authentic learning in AEC or other fields in which true authentic environments are not readily available.

PurposeIn the tourism industry, immersive technologies become increasingly vital, amplifying traveler experiences and industry growth. By studying "e-booking" applications prevalent in hotels, this study aims to analyze the impact of integrating an anthropomorphic virtual agent (AVA) on user perceptions of humanness and service usage intent.Design/methodology/approachTwo experiments were conducted to examine the effects of using an AVA and explain the psychological mechanism of how AVA's attributes increase intention to use "e-booking" application.FindingsThe results highlight the positive influence of AVA on the intention to use. They illustrate the psychological mechanism of how AVA's attributes (agency and emotionality) influence perceived humanness and intention to use. More specifically, the results indicate that perceived humanness mediated the effect of an AVA on intention to use.Research limitations/implicationsFurther research should delve into additional capabilities related to humanness.Practical implicationsThis study provides useful insights for hotels' managers about incorporating AVAs in digital services to enhance the perceived humanness of AVAs. The findings suggest that such efforts could yield benefits, especially when they involve conveying that AVAs possess agency and emotionality.Originality/valueTo the best of the author's knowledge, this study is the first to investigate how AVA impacts hotel human-computer interaction. It examines agency and emotionality features on humanness perception and behavioral intent. It also guides successful digitalized hotel service development and design, expanding existing research on human-virtual agent digital services, which mainly focuses on superficial traits like face and gender.

New human-centric approaches to safety can combine over-head camera views with situational awareness tools to enable humans to avoid rapidly evolving threats such as moving machines or falling debris. This article explores how 360 degrees information can be used to inform humans of potential collisions. Specifically, we quantify how different individual (tactile, audio, and visual) and combined cue modalities affect failure rates and reaction times. Human-subject experiments were conducted in a custom virtual reality environment that simulates objects rapidly moving toward the subject. In order to successfully perform their task, the human subject must physically move their body out of the path of the moving threat before a collision occurs. This exploration of full body physical response differentiates this article from previous related studies. The results of the 18-subject study provide quantified data on a range of cues and cue combinations. The study quantified failure rates and reaction times as a function of index of difficulty (Fitt's Law) and threat directionality. The results confirm the hypothesis that the addition of tactile cues statistically improve performance compared to non-tactile cues with regards to failure rate and reaction time. This demonstrates how sensory cues can improve human physical response to rapid threats.

We present the design and implementation of an optical see-through head-mounted display (HMD) with addressable focus cues utilizing a liquid lens. We implemented a monocular bench prototype capable of addressing the focal distance of the display from infinity to as close as 8 diopters. Two operation modes of the system were demonstrated: a vari-focal plane mode in which the accommodation cue is addressable, and a time-multiplexed multi-focal plane mode in which both the accommodation and retinal blur cues can be rendered. We further performed experiments to assess the depth perception and eye accommodative response of the system operated in a vari-focal plane mode. Both subjective and objective measurements suggest that the perceived depths and accommodative responses of the user match with the rendered depths of the virtual display with addressable accommodation cues, approximating the real-world 3-D viewing condition.

Background: Altering the normal association between touch and its visual correlate can result in the illusory perception of a fake limb as part of our own body. Thus, when touch is seen to be applied to a rubber hand while felt synchronously on the corresponding hidden real hand, an illusion of ownership of the rubber hand usually occurs. The illusion has also been demonstrated using visuomotor correlation between the movements of the hidden real hand and the seen fake hand. This type of paradigm has been used with respect to the whole body generating out-of-the-body and body substitution illusions. However, such studies have only ever manipulated a single factor and although they used a form of virtual reality have not exploited the power of immersive virtual reality (IVR) to produce radical transformations in body ownership. Principal Findings: Here we show that a first person perspective of a life-sized virtual human female body that appears to substitute the male subjects' own bodies was sufficient to generate a body transfer illusion. This was demonstrated subjectively by questionnaire and physiologically through heart-rate deceleration in response to a threat to the virtual body. This finding is in contrast to earlier experimental studies that assume visuotactile synchrony to be the critical contributory factor in ownership illusions. Our finding was possible because IVR allowed us to use a novel experimental design for this type of problem with three independent binary factors: (i) perspective position (first or third), (ii) synchronous or asynchronous mirror reflections and (iii) synchrony or asynchrony between felt and seen touch. Conclusions: The results support the notion that bottom-up perceptual mechanisms can temporarily override top down knowledge resulting in a radical illusion of transfer of body ownership. The research also illustrates immersive virtual reality as a powerful tool in the study of body representation and experience, since it supports experimental manipulations that would otherwise be infeasible, with the technology being mature enough to represent human bodies and their motion.

As scientific data sets increase in size, dimensionality, and complexity, new high resolution, interactive, collaborative networked display systems are required to view them in real-time. Increasingly, the principles of virtual reality (VR) are being applied to modem scientific visualization. One of the tenets of VR is stereoscopic (stereo or 3d) display; however the need to wear stereo glasses or other gear to experience the virtual world is encumbering and hinders other positive aspects of VR such as collaboration. Autostereoscopic (autostereo) displays presented imagery in 3d without the need to wear glasses or other gear, but few qualify as VR displays. The Electronic Visualization Laboratory (EVL) at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) has designed and built a single-screen version of its 35-panel tiled Varrier display, called Personal Varrier. Based on a static parallax barrier and the Varrier computational method, Personal Varrier provides a quality 3d autostereo experience in an economical, compact form factor. The system debuted at iGrid 2005 in San Diego, CA, accompanied by a suite of distributed and local scientific visualization and 3d teleconferencing applications. The CAVEwave National LambdaRail (NLR) network was vital to the success of the stereo teleconferencing. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the determinants of users' simulated experience in a virtual store and to show the subsequent impact of that experience on engagement. The outcome of that engagement is examined in relation to enjoyment, satisfaction and purchase intentions. Design/methodology/approach - The method comprised an experiment comparing users' perceptions of a standard 2D online clothing store with an enhanced, immersive one that aimed to provide shopping value approaching that of a traditional store by using a 3D experience where participants wore special glasses and a data glove. Findings - Results demonstrate the major role of telepresence components in simulated experience and the critical role of that experience, along with hedonic and utilitarian values, in engagement. Purchase intention is influenced by satisfaction, which is in turn influenced by enjoyment and engagement. Engagement in turn is influenced by utilitarian and hedonic value and the experience of product simulation or telepresence, which is composed of control, colour and graphics vividness, and 3D authenticity. In the immersive, 3D environment, experience is more associated with engagement and enjoyment, leading to greater purchase intention. The immersive, 3D environment, thus, has the potential to rival traditional shopping in terms of experience, resulting in higher sales for retailers and satisfaction for consumers. Originality/value - This work has evaluated a robust model of purchase intention and demonstrated it to hold not only in a 3D environment on a conventional computer platform, but also in an immersive one, where participants wear special glasses and a data glove. Z8 0

At present, the tactile perception of 3D geometric bumps (such as sinusoidal bumps, Gaussian bumps, triangular bumps, etc.) on touchscreens is mainly realized by mapping the local gradients of rendered virtual surfaces to lateral electrostatic friction, while maintaining the constant normal feedback force. The latest study has shown that the recognition rate of 3D visual objects with electrovibration is lower by 27% than that using force-feedback devices. Based on the custom-designed tactile display coupling with electrovibration and mechanical vibration stimuli, this paper proposes a novel tactile rendering algorithm of 3D geometric bumps, which simultaneously generates the lateral and the normal perceptual dimensions. Specifically, a mapping relationship with the electrostatic friction proportional to the gradient of 3D geometric bumps is firstly established. Then, resorting to the angle between the lateral friction force and the normal feedback force, a rendering model of the normal feedback force using mechanical vibration is further determined. Compared to the previous works with electrovibration, objective evaluations with 12 participants showed that the novel version significantly improved recognition rates of 3D bumps on touchscreens.

We present a tactile telepresence system for real-time transmission of information about object stiffness to the human fingertips. Experimental tests were performed across two laboratories (Italy and Ireland). In the Italian laboratory, a mechatronic sensing platform indented different rubber samples. Information about rubber stiffness was converted into on-off events using a neuronal spiking model and sent to a vibrotactile glove in the Irish laboratory. Participants discriminated the variation of the stiffness of stimuli according to a two-alternative forced choice protocol. Stiffness discrimination was based on the variation of the temporal pattern of spikes generated during the indentation of the rubber samples. The results suggest that vibrotactile stimulation can effectively simulate surface stiffness when using neuronal spiking models to trigger vibrations in the haptic interface. Specifically, fractional variations of stiffness down to 0.67 were significantly discriminated with the developed neuromorphic haptic interface. This is a performance comparable, though slightly worse, to the threshold obtained in a benchmark experiment evaluating the same set of stimuli naturally with the own hand. Our paper presents a bioinspired method for delivering sensory feedback about object properties to human skin based on contingency-mimetic neuronal models, and can be useful for the design of high performance haptic devices.

The present study examined the impact of peer-like and expert-like agent stereotypes, as operationalized by agent's image and voice, on learners' agent perceptions, task-related attitudes, and learning achievement. 56 university freshmen (23 males and 33 females) interacted with either the peer-like agent (female college student) or the expert-like agent (female college lecturer) in computer-based multimedia lesson on C-Programming. Consistent with similarity-attraction hypothesis, expert hypothesis, and interference hypothesis, it was found that: (1) learners assigned higher ratings on lesson enjoyment with peer-like agent than with expert-like agent, (2) female learners assigned higher trust to the lesson presented by expert-like agent that to the lesson presented by peer-like agent, (3) female learners reported less anxiety in learning task with expert-like agent than with peer-like agent, and (4) learners who were more attracted to virtual agent were more likely to score lower in learning achievement. Additionally, results from this study suggest that gender bias affects learner's perception on virtual agent. Implications are discussed in terms of how stereotypes of expert-like and peer-like agent can be effectively utilized in e-learning environment.

Computer based video games are receiving great interest as a means to learn and acquire new skills. As a novel approach to teaching navigation skills in the blind, we have developed Audio-based Environment Simulator (AbES); a virtual reality environment set within the context of a video game metaphor. Despite the fact that participants were naive to the overall purpose of the software, we found that early blind users were able to acquire relevant information regarding the spatial layout of a previously unfamiliar building using audio based cues alone. This was confirmed by a series of behavioral performance tests designed to assess the transfer of acquired spatial information to a large-scale, real-world indoor navigation task. Furthermore, learning the spatial layout through a goal directed gaming strategy allowed for the mental manipulation of spatial information as evidenced by enhanced navigation performance when compared to an explicit route learning strategy. We conclude that the immersive and highly interactive nature of the software greatly engages the blind user to actively explore the virtual environment. This in turn generates an accurate sense of a large-scale three-dimensional space and facilitates the learning and transfer of navigation skills to the physical world.

Objective Four web-based experiments investigated flexibility of disembodiment of a virtual object that is no longer actively controlled. Emphasis was on possibilities to modify the timescale of this process.Background Interactions with virtual objects are commonplace in settings like teleoperation, rehabilitation, and computer-aided design. These objects are quickly integrated into the operator's body schema (embodiment). Less is known about how long such embodiment lasts. Understanding the dynamics of this process is crucial because different applied settings either profit from fast or slow disembodiment.Method To induce embodiment, participants moved a 2D virtual hand through operating a computer mouse or touchpad. After initial embodiment, participants either stopped or continued moving for a fixed period of time. Embodiment ratings were collected continuously during each trial.Results Results across all experiments indicated that embodiment for the virtual hand gradually increased during active use and gradually decreased after stopping to use it. Disembodiment unfolded nearly twice as fast as embodiment and showed a curved decay pattern. These dynamics remained unaffected by anticipation of active control that would be required in an upcoming task.Conclusion The results highlight the importance of continuously experiencing active control in virtual interactions if aiming at inducing stable embodiment of a virtual object.Application Our findings suggest that applications of virtual disembodiment such as virtual tools or interventions to affect a person's body representation critically depend on continuous updating of sensorimotor experience. However, if switching between virtual objects, for example, during teleoperation or video gaming, after-effects are unlikely to affect performance.

Motion platforms have been widely used in Virtual Reality (VR) systems for decades to simulate motion in virtual environments, and they have several applications in emerging fields such as driving assistance systems, vehicle automation and road risk management. Currently, the development of new VR immersive systems faces unique challenges to respond to the user's requirements, such as introducing high-resolution 360 degrees panoramic images and videos. With this type of visual information, it is much more complicated to apply the traditional methods of generating motion cues, since it is generally not possible to calculate the necessary corresponding motion properties that are needed to feed the motion cueing algorithms. For this reason, this paper aims to present a new method for generating non-real-time gravito-inertial cues with motion platforms using a system fed both with computer-generated-simulation-based-images and video imagery. It is a hybrid method where part of the gravito-inertial cues-those with acceleration information-are generated using a classical approach through the application of physical modeling in a VR scene utilizing washout filters, and part of the gravito-inertial cues-the ones coming from recorded images and video, without acceleration information-were generated ad hoc in a semi-manual way. The resulting motion cues generated were further modified according to the contributions of different experts based on a successive approximation-Wideband Delphi-inspired-method. The subjective evaluation of the proposed method showed that the motion signals refined with this method were significantly better than the original non-refined ones in terms of user perception. The final system, developed as part of an international road safety education campaign, could be useful for developing further VR-based applications for key fields such as driving assistance, vehicle automation and road crash prevention.

The paradigm of bare-hand interaction has become increasingly prevalent in Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) environments, propelled by advancements in hand tracking technology. However, a signifcant challenge arises in delivering haptic feedback to users' hands, due to the necessity for the hands to remain bare. In response to this challenge, recent research has proposed an indirect solution of providing haptic feedback to the forearm. In this work, we present QuadStretcher, a skin stretch display featuring four independently controlled stretching units surrounding the forearm. While achieving rich haptic expression, our device also eliminates the need for a grounding base on the forearm by using a pair of counteracting tactors, thereby reducing bulkiness. To assess the efectiveness of QuadStretcher in facilitating immersive barehand experiences, we conducted a comparative user evaluation (n = 20) with a baseline solution, Squeezer. The results confrmed that QuadStretcher outperformed Squeezer in terms of expressing force direction and heightening the sense of realism, particularly in 3-DoF VR interactions such as pulling a rubber band, hooking a fshing rod, and swinging a tennis racket. We further discuss the design insights gained from qualitative user interviews, presenting key takeaways for future forearm-haptic systems aimed at advancing AR/VR bare-hand experiences.

When the immersive filmwork is experienced by the audiences with head-mounted display,the interactive experience of immersive images lies in that the audiences (users) need to be part of the story in terms of the visual perception experience and the story emotional experience. Construction of interactive narration and the free perspective of panoramic view creates a new mode of narrative experience. The immersive interactive film provide the audiences with a free moving perspective to observe and experience the story in a natural way. The scene narrative has been main moth of immersive film storytelling. The audio-visual sense and the boundless perspective realize the immersion of sense organs, and achieves the realistic experience of a higher level. And the experience relation among audience, image media and image content are be changed.

Walking-In-Place (WIP) techniques make it possible to facilitate relatively natural locomotion within immersive virtual environments that are larger than the physical interaction space. However, in order to facilitate natural walking experiences one needs to know how to map steps in place to virtual motion. This paper describes two within-subjects studies performed with the intention of establishing the range of perceptually natural walking speeds for WIP locomotion. In both studies, subjects performed a series of virtual walks while exposed to visual gains (optic flow multipliers) ranging from 1.0 to 3.0. Thus, the slowest speed was equal to an estimate of the subjects normal walking speed, while the highest speed was three times greater. The perceived naturalness of the visual speed was assessed using self-reports. The first study compared four different types of movement, namely, no leg movement, walking on a treadmill, and two forms of gestural input for WIP locomotion. The results suggest that WIP locomotion is accompanied by a perceptual distortion of the speed of optic flow. The second study was performed using a 4x2 factorial design and compared four different display field-of-views (FOVs) and two types of movement, walking on a treadmill and WIP locomotion. The results revealed significant main effects of both movement type and field of view, but no significant interaction between the two variables. Particularly, they suggest that the size of the display FOV is inversely proportional to the degree of underestimation of the virtual speeds for both treadmill-mediated virtual walking and WIP locomotion. Combined, the results constitute a first attempt at establishing a set of guidelines specifying what virtual walking speeds WIP gestures should produce in order to facilitate a natural walking experience.

Research has shown that spatial perception is not only one of the essential abilities for success in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), but is also closely related to the quality of human existence. However, for a variety of reasons, many students' spatial skills are less than ideal. In recent years, various video games are showing great potential as low-cost but effective training tools to improve the educational level and cognitive skills. This paper presented a novel serious strategy game named Magic World. The game was designed to enhance children's spatial perception and motivation by using narrative, virtual contexts, and game mechanics that incorporate educational content with entertainment as a powerful extra-curricular aid. A pilot study and evaluation experiment were conducted with primary school students (N = 68) and the results showed that the training had a measurable positive impact on students' spatial ability. In addition, user experience surveys of the game showed that Magic World was considered a fun, challenging, and popular game for children. Z8 0

The sense of equilibrium aggregates several interacting cues. On vestibular areflexic patients, vision plays a major role. We developed an immersive therapeutic platform, based on 3D opto-kinetic stimulation that enables to tune the difficulty of the balance task by managing the type of optic flow and its speed. The balance adjustments are recorded by a force plate, quantified by the length of the center of pressure trajectory and detection of disequilibrium corrections (leans, compensation step). Preliminary analysis shows that (i) patients report a strong immersion feeling in the motion flow, triggering intense motor response to "fight against fall"; (ii) the ANOVA factorial design shows a significant effect of flow speed, session number and gaze anchor impact. In conclusion, this study shows that 3D immersive stimulation removes essential limits of traditional opto-kinetic stimulators (limited 2D motions and remaining fixed background cues). Moreover, the immersive optic flow stimulation is an efficient tool to induce balance adaptive reactions in vestibular patients. Hence, such a platform appears to be a powerful therapeutic tool for training and relearning of balance control processes.

Interventions involving simulated interactions aimed at mimicking real situations must be engaging to maximize their effectiveness. This study aimed to assess how a sample of middle school girls displayed behavioral and cognitive indicators of engagement when interacting with avatars representing game characters that were controlled by a human digital puppeteer. The simulation game, DRAMA-RAMA, is a component of an intervention intended to reduce at-risk girls' sexual and other risky behaviors. We used verbal/nonverbal behaviors and surveys to assess the game players' cognitive and behavioral involvement (N = 131). Participants perceived the game scenarios and interactions as realistic and the characters as similar to people in real life. Participants' behavior indicated their involvement and interest in interacting with the game characters. Finally, participants tended to be appropriate but not effective when attempting to advise/support the characters. These findings have implications for assessing successful operationalization of communication designs in interactive virtual learning environments.

A haptic interface recreates haptic feedback from virtual environments or haptic teleoperation systems that engages the user's sense of touch. High-fidelity haptic feedback is critical to the safety and success of any interaction with human beings. Such interactions can be seen in haptic systems utilized in medical fields, such as for surgical training, robotic tele-surgery, and tele-rehabilitation, which require appropriate haptic interface design and control. In order to recreate high-fidelity soft and stiff contact experiences for the user in the intended application, different designs strike different trade-offs between the desirable characteristics of an interface, such as back-drivability, low apparent inertia and low friction for the best perception of small reflected forces, large intrinsic stiffness and force feedback capability for the best perception of large reflected forces, a large-enough workspace for exploring the remote or virtual environment, and the uniformity of haptic feedback and its adequate sensitivity over the workspace. Meeting all of the requirements simultaneously is impossible, and different application-driven compromises need to be made. This paper reviews how various kinematic designs have helped address these trade-offs in desired specifications. First, we investigate the required characteristics of linkage-based haptic interfaces and inevitable trade-offs between them. Then, we study the state of the art in the kinematic design of haptic interfaces and their advantages and limitations. In all sections, we consider the applications of the intended haptic interfaces in medical scenarios. Non-linkage-based haptic interfaces are also shortly discussed to show the broad range of haptic technologies in the area. The potentials of kinematic redundancy to address the design trade-offs are introduced. Current challenges and future directions of haptic interface designs for medical applications are shortly discussed, which is finally followed by the conclusion.

We benefited from the flexibility provided by virtual reality to enhance a classical paradigm on array and self mental rotations and related questions on a set of items. We used this paradigm to investigate how the Level of Schizotypy in nonclinical subjects might influence their behavior in egocentric and allocentric mental transformations. Three elements of novelty were introduced: (i) we separated the phases of mental transformation (Imagined Rotation Phase) and task performance (Task Phase), (ii) we measured the time required for Imagined Rotation Phase and Task Phase separately, and (iii) we cued self-rotations with a virtual human being (self-avatar) or an inanimate object (self-chair). Twenty-four nonclinical participants were categorized in low- and high-schizotypal subjects (Low-S, High-S). A mixed-design analysis of variance showed that High-S were significantly faster than Low-S during the Imagined Rotation Phase (array and self-chair rotations) and during the Task Phase (self-chair). High-S were also faster in the self-chair than in the self-avatar rotation, supporting the existence of a dissociation between perspective changing and perspective taking in High-S. In line with the literature, we found that participant performances decreased with increasing angular difference between the initial and the imagined perspective.

Background Existing traditional cognitive screening tools for dementia have various limitations, including overreliance on tests assessing verbal memory and, to a lesser extent, on some aspects of executive functioning. Comprehensive neuropsychological assessment is sensitive to impairment but time-intensive and expensive. Virtual reality may provide a dynamic and unique understanding of cognitive performance and increase the ecological validity of cognitive assessment. The use of virtual reality in screening for cognitive function in older persons is promising, but evidence for its use remains sparse. Objective Our primary aim was to examine the feasibility and acceptability of a newly developed, virtual reality assessment module, 'Leaf Cafe', a computer-based program that assesses cognition in an engaging, efficient, and ecologically relevant way. The secondary aim was to assess the ability of the module to discriminate between performances of younger and older adults. Methods A cross-sectional study was carried out in Sydney, Australia, targeting adults aged 18 years and above. Participants completed a traditional cognitive screening tool (Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status-Modified, TICS-M) and Leaf Cafe, a low-immersive virtual reality module designed to evaluate learning and memory, perceptual-motor function, and executive functioning. The total performance score for each participant, ranging from 0 to 180, was correlated with their cognitive performance assessed by TICS-M, using Pearson's correlation coefficient. Following module completion, participants were presented with an open and closed-question survey to capture their perceptions, attitudes, and feedback on the module, encompassing practicality, acceptability, and enjoyment. Both descriptive and content analyses were employed to interpret the obtained data. Results A sample of 131 participants (mean age 54.9 years, SD = 20.8, range 20-85) took part. The majority were female (71.8%) and born in an English-speaking country (75.8%). The mean amount of time spent in the module was 32.8 min (SD = 13.3) with a mean module score of 107.6 (SD = 38.7). Most participants completed the highest level (5; 80.5%). There was a significant correlation between Leaf Cafe total scores with TICS-M cognitive scores overall, and for both younger (aged 18-64 years) and older adult (aged 65 + years) groups. No significant difference was found on performance between age groups on TICS-M performance, however, younger adults had significantly better performance on the Leaf Cafe module than older adults (M = 124.1 vs 95.9; p < .001). Participants had similar response proportions regarding user experience with most agreeing that the module was easy to use (84%) and to navigate (85%). Compared with younger adults, older adults had lower rates of agreement on the module's design (36.8% vs 64.3%; p = .020) and support experienced (20.5% vs 53.6%; p = .007). Participants highlighted the significance of practicality and the cognitive challenges presented by the module, in terms of memory strain and user interface concerns. Feedback encompassed different opinions on the usefulness of music, with suggestions for improvements centred around clearer instructions, varied game dynamics, and considerations for diverse user needs. Conclusions Leaf Cafe is a feasible and acceptable tool to be used for screening for cognitive impairment in older adults and has real-world assessment value. Further verification on the game's utility in detecting cognitive impairment is required.

There is great potential in making assessment and learning complementary. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of developing a desktop virtual reality (VR) laboratory simulation on the topic of genetics, with integrated assessment using multiple choice questions based on item response theory (IRT) and feedback based on the cognitive theory of multimedia learning. A pre-test post-test design was used to investigate three research questions related to: (1) students' perceptions of assessment in the form of MC questions within the VR genetics simulation; (2) the fit of the MC questions to the assumptions of the partial credit model (PCM) within the framework of IRT; and (3) if there was a significant increase in intrinsic motivation, self-efficacy, and transfer from pre- to post-test after using the VR genetics simulation as a classroom learning activity. The sample consisted of 208 undergraduate students taking a medical genetics course. The results showed that assessment items in the form of gamified multiple-choice questions were perceived by 97% of the students to lead to higher levels of understanding, and only 8% thought that they made the simulation more boring. Items within a simulation were found to fit the PCM and the results showed that the sample had a small significant increase in intrinsic motivation and self-efficacy, and a large significant increase in transfer following the genetics simulation. It was possible to develop assessments for online educational material and retain the relevance and connectedness of informal assessment while simultaneously serving the communicative and credibility-based functions of formal assessment, which is a great challenge facing education today.

Virtual reality (VR) refers to the computer-generated simulation of a three-dimensional image environment that can be interacted within a seemingly physical way by a person using special electronic equipment and making people interactive and immersive. VR technology is applied to communication activities, producing VR communication. VR technology is applied to news reports, giving birth to the emergence of VR news. The great significance of VR technology for news communication lies in the comprehensive intake and recording and transmission of news site materials so that news events can "reproduce" and "restore." The most prominent feature of VR transmission is immersion. Immersivity is mainly reflected in the perceptual system and the behavioral system of the human body. The immersion of perception system includes visual immersion, auditory immersion, touch immersion, and other sensory immersion; behavioral system immersion includes the immersion of language system, direction system immersion, and expression system immersion. Immersive communication has experienced three development stages: interactive communication, invasive communication, infiltration, and audience experience. There are three hidden dangers in VR technology in the communication. One is the hidden danger of the technical operation level: the lack of security and stability of the production process may lead to the disappearance of the traditional reporter, the second is the ethical hidden danger: the degradation of "audience" to "mass," and third is "body" weakening the authority of "addiction": the emergence of "brain in the cylinder," the emergence of snooping feast, and the formation of exposed carnival. There are three aspects to prevent VR hidden dangers, layout and top-level design, improve security, and communication efficiency, promote industrial application, enhance user stickiness, strengthen brand building, and create ace IP and quality content. Z8 0

In 1999, the first episode of The Matrix movie trilogy was released, marking the beginning of a new trend in science fiction movies and also in the perception of motion pictures as interactive social and commercial events. This paper will analyze an aspect of The Matrix trilogy promotional campaign (1999-2003) focusing on the interplay between verbal and visual semiotics through a select corpus of posters. The method of analysis will be based both on the grammar of visual design developed by Kress and van Leeuwen, and on the Hallidayan model of analysis. The Matrix movies are set in a present (not future) 'real' world that is actually a fiction of science,' rather than a science fiction vision of a future reality. They are based on the idea of a very fuzzy border between real and virtual reality, which has become a major issue in these last fifteen years due to the advent of the internet and the fast growing number of internet users all over the world. This analysis will show how posters encode different kinds of promotional messages according to the social impact of each movie.

Purpose This study was based on situated learning, by combining mobile learning and augmented reality, so that students could not only access information content in a real environment but also obtain such information via augmented reality, to support mobile learning. Design/methodology/approach The research included development of an augmented reality system combined with situational learning, used by students to learn about campus plants as part of the college life technology curriculum. Students took part in mobile learning, and an investigation was conducted into the computer learning behaviour of notebook users. College students were used as the experimental subjects. Data were collected using questionnaire surveys and were evaluated in order to identify the behavioural intentions of learners in outdoor learning activities. Findings The questionnaire survey covered environmental interactivity, system quality and textbook content. It was found that learners who used mobile learning augmented reality (MLAR) generally managed to browse all the contents of the textbook at each learning location, without spending too much time looking for information, and learners could quickly integrate this into the learning situation. Learners who used MLAR had a strong motivation to study plants at the learning site because they wanted to use the augmented reality technology to observe virtual plant models. Learners who used MLAR in their field learning liked using augmented reality for further learning, for example, using a magic wand to interact with the technology. Originality/value This study adopted a new approach to deliver elements of the life technology curriculum, integrating augmented reality into mobile learning. All participating students gave positive reviews of six aspects of the proposed system: their behavioural intentions, cognitive usefulness, cognitive ease of use, environmental interactivity, system quality and textbook content.

Understanding the influence of external information at a lower level of awareness during the processes of route selection could be a key factor to predict user's movements within complex buildings, avoiding wayfinding problems and improving egress in emergency situations. This study aims to verify whether corridor intersection configuration attributes, such as width and brightness, act as factors of attraction to improve the affordance of indoor hallways during an emergency egress situation, using a VR-based methodology. The main hypotheses are that users tend to move along either, wider or brighter corridors. Thirty volunteers participated in this study, moving along 57 different corridors, according to the experimental conditions of the study. The results suggest that people prefer to follow brighter pathways in "T-type" and "F-type" intersections, and wider corridors in "T-type" intersections. In situations where these variables are in conflict, there is a preference for brighter paths in both intersection configurations. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

Objective: To investigate whether training in a virtual environment with a haptic device will improve motor function in the left hemiparetic arm of a stroke subject. Design: Single case, A-B-A design. Setting: University hospital research laboratory. Participant: A man in his late fifties (right handed), with a right-hemisphere lesion that caused a deficit in the left upper extremity. Intervention: The subject trained with a 3-dimensional computer game during a 4-week period that consisted of twelve 90-minute sessions. Main Outcome Measures: Three tests (Purdue pegboard test, dynamometer hand-grip strength, upper-extremity test) and a subjective interview were used to evaluate motor performance. Results: Improvements were found in fine manual dexterity, grip force, and motor control of the affected upper extremity. The subject reported that there was a change in his day-to-day use of the upper extremity and that he was able to use it in activities that were previously impossible for him. Conclusions: Training with virtual reality and haptics can promote motor rehabilitation. (C) 2004 by the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine and the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.

Binocular stereo vision is an important aspect in computer vision field. In this paper, it is made a systematic research, which is the system of human-computer interaction based on bincular stereo vision. In order to improve the anti-interference performance the hardware system worked in the condition of near infrared ; to inhance the real time operation , the level of difficulty with stereo matching algorithm is simplified through special hardware design; based on the ICP algorithm for tracking tools, the flexibility and convenience of system are increasingly. The application in surgical navigation system is discussed. In the prototype system, how to unified virtual coordinates and real coordinates has been presented; the problem on how to tracking patient undergoing in real-time is solved. The result has higher precision and practicability, which provide a good platform for virtual reality.

Software bots automate tasks within Open Source Software (OSS) projects' pull requests and save reviewing time and effort ("the good"). However, their interactions can be disruptive and noisy and lead to information overload ("the bad"). To identify strategies to overcome such problems, we applied Design Fiction as a participatory method with 32 practitioners. We elicited 22 design strategies for a bot mediator or the pull request user interface ("the promising"). Participants envisioned a separate place in the pull request interface for bot interactions and a bot mediator that can summarize and customize other bots' actions to mitigate noise. We also collected participants' perceptions about a prototype implementing the envisioned strategies. Our design strategies can guide the development of future bots and social coding platforms.

Objectives: Virtual-reality (VR) training has been demonstrated to improve laparoscopic surgical skills in the operating theatre. The incorporation of laparoscopic VR simulation into surgical training in gynaecology remains a significant educational challenge. We undertook a pilot study to assess the feasibility of the implementation of a laparoscopic VR simulation programme into a single unit. Study design: An observational study with qualitative analysis of semi-structured group interviews. Trainees in gynaecology (n = 9) were scheduled to undertake a pre-validated structured training programme on a laparoscopic VR simulator (LapSim (R)) over six months. The main outcome measure was the trainees' progress through the training modules in six months. Trainees' perceptions of the feasibility and barriers to the implementation of laparoscopic VR training were assessed in focus groups after training. Results: Sixty-six percent of participants completed six of ten modules. Overall, feedback from the focus groups was positive; trainees felt training improved their dexterity, hand-eye co-ordination and confidence in theatre. Negative aspects included lack of haptic feedback, and facility for laparoscopic port placement training. Time restriction emerged as the main barrier to training. Conclusions: Despite positive perceptions of training, no trainee completed more than two-thirds of the modules of a self-directed laparoscopic VR training programme. Suggested improvements to the integration of future laparoscopic VR training include an additional theoretical component with a fuller understanding of benefits of VR training, and scheduled supervision. Ultimately, the success of a laparoscopic VR simulation training programme might only be improved if it is a mandatory component of the curriculum, together with dedicated time for training. Future multi-centred implementation studies of validated laparoscopic VR curricula are required. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

FThe use of robotics in rehabilitation has shown to have a positive outcome when applied to stroke patients and other movement based therapies. Despite recent studies looking at these types of therapies in helping patients with Phantom Limb Pain very few have looked at employing the elements that make robotics successful with stroke patients towards amputees. Phantom Limb Pain affects the majority of amputees, resulting in the need for further study due to the vast range of potential treatments available. This paper examines the effects of Phantom Limb Pain, its treatment, paradigms based on robotic rehabilitation, and provides an outline of a possible therapy method based on an immersive system providing proprioceptive and kinaesthetic feedback to the user while performing a manipulation task.

Diminished reality is as important as augmented reality, and both are possible with a device called the Reality Mediator, Over the past two decades, we have designed, built, worn, and tested many different embodiments of this device in the context of wearable computing. Incorporated into the Reality Mediator is an "EyeTap" system, which is a device that quantifies and resynthesizes light that would otherwise pass through one or both lenses of the eye(s) of a wearer. The functional principles of EyeTap devices are discussed, in detail. The EyeTap diverts into a spatial measurement system at least a portion of light that would otherwise pass through the center of projection of at least one lens of an eye of a wearer. The Reality Mediator has at least one mode of operation in which it reconstructs these rays of light, under the control of a wearable computer system. The computer system then uses new results in algebraic projective geometry and comparametric equations to perform head tracking, as well as to track motion of rigid planar patches present in the scene. We describe how our tracking algorithm allows an EyeTap to alter the light from a particular portion of the scene to give rise to a computer-controlled, selectively mediated reality. An important difference between mediated reality and augmented reality includes the ability to not just augment but also deliberately diminish or otherwise alter the visual perception of reality. For example, diminished reality allows additional information to be inserted without causing the user to experience information overload. Our tracking algorithm also takes into account the effects of automatic gain control, by performing motion estimation in both spatial as well as tonal motion coordinates. Z8 0

In a building context, decisions made early in the design phase can have a major impact on maintainability of the resulting facility. Effectively leveraging the knowledge of facility management teams in the design stage can lead to improved maintainability in the operation phase, but this feedback can be challenging to elicit during the design stage because facility management teams may not be formed by the time of design. This requires designers, who may not have facility management experience, to think like facility managers in order to consider the needs of the maintenance teams. This paper examines the extent to which different visualization media may be able to enable individuals without prior maintenance experience to identify maintainability concerns in a design model. Student participants, without prior maintenance experience, were randomly assigned to explore a design to assess maintainability concerns with either augmented reality (AR) or a traditional computer screen for viewing a Building Information Model (BIM). Their perceptions, behaviors, and statements were recorded and analyzed. Results indicate that BIM supports better identification of potentially problematic areas, but AR allows users to more consistently determine why an area is problematic. This suggests an opportunity to use a hybrid BIM/AR approach for identifying and resolving maintainability considerations during the design phase. The findings from this work provide evidence to illustrate how AR and BIM may enable individuals with limited experience to be able to effectively think like facility managers in order to make better maintainability decisions during design to lead to a better building during operation.

We investigate how different types of haptic feedback to hand affect the perceived size of a virtual object. Multiple haptic interfaces are designed to deliver different types of haptic feedback to hand. In the preliminary experiment, we investigated the effect of cutaneous feedback on the perceived size of the virtual object. The experimental results indicate that the availability of cutaneous feedback resulted in an insignificant effect on the perceived size of the virtual object. On the other hand, the availability of cutaneous feedback led the participants to exert significantly smaller grip force than when there is only force feedback. In the main experiment, we provided haptic feedback to the dorsum of the hand to modulate the hand kinesthesia at the moment of contact with the virtual object. For the reference stimuli, skin-stretch or vibrotactile feedback was provided to a participant's hand along with cutaneous and force feedback to the fingertips. Reference stimuli were rendered only with cutaneous and force feedback to the fingers. The experimental results indicate a significant effect of the type of haptic feedback to the dorsum of a hand. The skin-stretch feedback led the participants to feel virtual objects with a size of 40 mm, larger than without the feedback. The vibrotactile feedback resulted in the perceived size of virtual objects with a size of 20 or 40 mm, smaller than without the vibrotactile feedback.

A project current research project is developing and evaluating the use of Web-delivered tools to supplement the community decision-making process. This has involved building and testing a 3D tool for Community Collaborative decision-making in the Jewell Station Neighbourhood (JSN). The focus of this decision-making tool provision is placed in an urban planning context. VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Language) was used to build two tools: a 'Sandbox' and a virtual world. Building the tools was done so that community members, or planning consortia, could use the tools in a group meeting or individually through home Internet computers, or even at Internet cafes. The underlying criterion for design was simplicity and accessibility. The virtual world was created as a test-bed for determining the 'best' content/presentation method. The development of the model and subsequent evaluations are the focii of this paper. The model was developed as a test bed to determine 1. What the model should contain - a trade-off between development costs and usability, 2. How much information needs to be included for professional and public users and 3. How landmarks might be incorporated to facilitate a 'balance' between minimal information provision and usability. [GRAPHICS] An initial evaluation of the tools was made with a focus group to provide general feedback. A second evaluation was conducted so as to better understand how complex a computer graphics 3D environment needed to be for community discussion of urban planning developments. Here we determined how 'dirty' (complex/detailed) 3D urban computer visualizations needed to be and what they should contain. An on-going third evaluation component seeks to ascertain how landmarks and the users' familiarity of a study area can be used as the basis for building simpler and thus more economical virtual worlds. This paper provides background information about the project and reports on the findings related to how complex the worlds need to be.

Objective:The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of a virtual reality-based spatial hearing training protocol in bilateral cochlear implant (CI) users and to provide pilot data on the impact of this training on different qualities of hearing. Design:Twelve bilateral CI adults aged between 19 and 69 followed an intensive 10-week rehabilitation program comprised eight virtual reality training sessions (two per week) interspersed with several evaluation sessions (2 weeks before training started, after four and eight training sessions, and 1 month after the end of training). During each 45-minute training session, participants localized a sound source whose position varied in azimuth and/or in elevation. At the start of each trial, CI users received no information about sound location, but after each response, feedback was given to enable error correction. Participants were divided into two groups: a multisensory feedback group (audiovisual spatial cue) and an unisensory group (visual spatial cue) who only received feedback in a wholly intact sensory modality. Training benefits were measured at each evaluation point using three tests: 3D sound localization in virtual reality, the French Matrix test, and the Speech, Spatial and other Qualities of Hearing questionnaire. Results:The training was well accepted and all participants attended the whole rehabilitation program. Four training sessions spread across 2 weeks were insufficient to induce significant performance changes, whereas performance on all three tests improved after eight training sessions. Front-back confusions decreased from 32% to 14.1% (p = 0.017); speech recognition threshold score from 1.5 dB to -0.7 dB signal-to-noise ratio (p = 0.029) and eight CI users successfully achieved a negative signal-to-noise ratio. One month after the end of structured training, these performance improvements were still present, and quality of life was significantly improved for both self-reports of sound localization (from 5.3 to 6.7, p = 0.015) and speech understanding (from 5.2 to 5.9, p = 0.048). Conclusions:This pilot study shows the feasibility and potential clinical relevance of this type of intervention involving a sensorial immersive environment and could pave the way for more systematic rehabilitation programs after cochlear implantation.

Virtual humans play a pivotal role in social virtual environments, shaping users' VR experiences. The diversity in available options and users' individual preferences can result in a heterogeneous mix of appearances among a group of virtual humans. The resulting variety in higher-order anthropomorphic and realistic cues introduces multiple (in)congruencies, eventually impacting the plausibility of the experience. However, related work investigating the effects of being co-located with multiple virtual humans of different appearances remains limited. In this work, we consider the impact of (in)congruencies in the realism of a group of virtual humans, including co-located others (agents) and one's self-representation (self-avatar), on users' individual VR experiences. In a 2 x 3 mixed design, participants embodied either (1) a personalized realistic or (2) a customized stylized self-avatar across three consecutive VR exposures in which they were accompanied by a group of virtual others being either (1) all realistic, (2) all stylized, or (3) mixed between stylized and realistic. Our results indicate groups of virtual others of higher realism, i.e., potentially more congruent with participants' real-world experiences and expectations, were considered more human-like, increasing the feeling of co-presence and the impression of interaction possibilities. (In)congruencies concerning the homogeneity of the group did not cause considerable effects. Furthermore, our results indicate that a self-avatar's congruence with the participant's real-world experiences concerning their own physical body yielded notable benefits for virtual body ownership and self-identification for realistic personalized avatars. Notably, the incongruence between a stylized self-avatar and a group of realistic virtual others resulted in diminished ratings of self-location and self-identification. This suggests that higher-order (in)congruent visual cues that are not within the ego-central referential frame of one's (virtual) body, can have an (adverse) effect on the relationship between one's self and body. We conclude on the implications of our findings and discuss our results within current theories of VR experiences, considering (in)congruent visual cues and their impact on the perception of virtual others, self-representation, and spatial presence.

This research examines small group collaboration on the Augmented Reality (AR) Sandbox, an interactive, real-time topographical simulator that provides a color layer of augmentation showing depths and height, contour lines, and hydrology vis-a-vis the terrain of sand in a box. Prior research has focused on AR Sandbox activity designs, outcome measures, and user's perceptions of different usability functions. No research to date has examined the situated processes by which groups engage in CSCL activities on the AR Sandbox as they participate in authentic forms of topographical studies. Taking a dialogic stance to examine CSCL using AR, in this study we draw on previous scholarship about distributed spatial sensemaking to analyze the way groups interact over material, social, and activity contexts. Based on an Interaction Analysis methodology, our findings point to the different resources that are coordinated with the use of the AR Sandbox; the different ways that turn-taking during distributed spatial sensemaking occurs; and the intricacy and speed by which multimodal resources are used to advance spatial thinking. The implications of this research broaden views of distributed spatial sensemaking, provide novel methodological tools to examine this phenomena, and suggest different levels of analysis and expectations for studies on the AR Sandbox.

This paper examines the feasibility of incorporating visual cueing systems within vehicles to mitigate the risk of experiencing motion sickness. The objective is to enhance passenger awareness and the ability to anticipate the forces associated with car travel motion. Through a comprehensive literature review, the findings demonstrate that visual cues can mitigate motion sickness for particular in-vehicle configurations, whereas their influence on situational awareness is not clear yet. Each type of visual cue proved more effective when presented in the peripheral field of view rather than solely in the central vision. Promising applications can be found within interactive screens and ambient lighting, while the use of extended reality shows potential for future investigations. In addition, integrating such systems into highly automated vehicles shows potential to improve their overall user acceptance. This paper focuses on the integration of visual cues in vehicles to alleviate motion sickness. The work provides an overview of visual cueing strategies and different types of systems for display. The findings suggest that incorporating visual cues in highly automated vehicles can reduce motion sickness. Recommendations are provided for the design and integration of these displays in vehicle interiors.

Multi-modal haptic rendering is an important research direction to improve realism in haptic rendering. It can produce various mechanical stimuli that render multiple perceptions, such as hardness and roughness. This paper proposes a multi-modal haptic rendering method based on a genetic algorithm (GA), which generates force and vibration stimuli of haptic actuators according to the user's target hardness and roughness. The work utilizes a back propagation (BP) neural network to implement the perception model f that establishes the mapping (I=f(G)) from objective stimuli features G to perception intensities I. We use the perception model to design the fitness function of GA and set physically achievable constraints in fitness calculation. The perception model is transformed into the force/vibration control model by GA. Finally, we conducted realism evaluation experiments between real and virtual samples under single or multi-mode haptic rendering, where subjects scored 0-100. The average score was 70.86 for multi-modal haptic rendering compared with 57.81 for hardness rendering and 50.23 for roughness rendering, which proved that the multi-modal haptic rendering is more realistic than the single mode. Based on the work, our method can be applied to render objects in more perceptual dimensions, not only limited to hardness and roughness. It has significant implications for multi-modal haptic rendering.

We aim to ask and answer an essential question "how quickly dowe react after observing a displayed visual target?" To this end, we present psychophysical studies that characterize the remarkable disconnect between human saccadic behaviors and spatial visual acuity. Building on the results of our studies, we develop a perceptual model to predict temporal gaze behavior, particularly saccadic latency, as a function of the statistics of a displayed image. Specifically, we implement a neurologically-inspired probabilistic model that mimics the accumulation of confidence that leads to a perceptual decision. We validate our model with a series of objective measurements and user studies using an eye-tracked VR display. The results demonstrate that our model prediction is in statistical alignment with real-world human behavior. Further, we establish that many sub-threshold image modifications commonly introduced in graphics pipelines may significantly alter human reaction timing, even if the differences are visually undetectable. Finally, we show that our model can serve as a metric to predict and alter reaction latency of users in interactive computer graphics applications, thus may improve gaze-contingent rendering, design of virtual experiences, and player performance in e-sports. We illustrate this with two examples: estimating competition fairness in a video game with two different team colors, and tuning display viewing distance to minimize player reaction time.

Cognitive planning deficits affect patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and traditional psychometric tests meet difficulties to evaluate their impact on daily life activities. Virtual reality (VR) may provide a new means of assessment. The objective of this study was firstly to develop a virtual environment (VE) useful to explore planning and secondly to examine the effectiveness of using VR in the assessment of cognitive planning for patients with PD. A virtual supermarket (VS) was designed in which participants carried out a task close to daily activities: a test of shopping list. There were two preliminary sessions to familiarize the participants with the software and the supermarket's layout. Then, during the assessment session, participants completed the task, without any time limitation. Global intellectual efficiency was assessed in order to exclude patients with dementia. Data related to the performance in the VS were recorded. Five patients with PD and five age-matched healthy volunteers, meeting inclusion criteria, constituted our convenience sample. The patients did not perform as well as the control group. In particular, the session's duration and the distance covered were longer. The patients' path is specific with numerous stops, turning around, and hesitancies. Finally, their motivation for further training sessions is aroused. The results underline the potential of using VR in the assessment of cognitive planning in PD. A larger analysis is currently being carried out to confirm and to explore all the outcome measures.

This study develops and empirically tests a conceptual model comprising eight hypotheses that focus on the impact of Augmented Reality (AR) on student academic self-efficacy. A controlled experiment was conducted, followed by an online questionnaire with 65 students. Partial Least Square (PLS) Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) is used to assess and test the model. The results show that student cognitive strategies impact student perception and engagement with technology and learning tasks, with AR positively impacting student academic self-efficacy in higher education. Interestingly, neither the learning space nor the students' perception of task value was shown to impact their intention to use AR. Instead, it was the characteristics of the technology itself which encouraged adoption. The study's findings reinforce the need to (1) teach and facilitate effective cognitive strategies among third level students and (2) identify and overcome negative cognitive strategies that harm student self-efficacy and engagement.

Eye contact is important during social interactions. It is known as one of the most compelling social signals which can boost people's physiological arousal. However, people tend to feel that they are making eye contacts with other people rather than with objects. In this paper, our research is motivated to explore the possibility of gaze communication between a person and an inanimate object. By anthropomorphizing everyday objects, we try to create social interactions and a sense of emotional bond between people and inanimate objects, inspired by anthropomorphic design. Based on the eye-tracking technology, we implement a coffee machine system with two small responsive displays which called "artificial eyes". In the system, when a person looks at the artificial eyes, they will look back and try to establish the eye contact with that person. When a person stares at the artificial eyes for a while, indicating the needs of using the coffee machine, the artificial eyes will look down and pour the coffee out automatically. Finally, we present the experimental plan to compare the user's perceptions between the interactive-gaze condition and the random-gaze condition of the artificial eyes.

With the introduction of variable friction displays, either based on ultrasonic or electrovibration technology, new possibilities have emerged in haptic texture rendering on flat surfaces. In this work, we propose a data-driven method for realistic texture rendering on an electrovibration display. We first describe a motorized linear tribometer designed to collect lateral frictional forces from textured surfaces under various scanning velocities and normal forces. We then propose an inverse dynamics model of the display to describe its output-input relationship using nonlinear autoregressive neural networks with external input. Forces resulting from applying a pseudo-random binary signal to the display are used to train each network under the given experimental condition. In addition, we propose a two-step interpolation scheme to estimate actuation signals for arbitrary conditions under which no prior data have been collected. A comparison between real and virtual forces in the frequency domain shows promising results for recreating virtual textures similar to the real ones, also revealing the capabilities and limitations of the proposed method. We also conducted a human user study to compare the performance of our neural-network-based method with that of a record-and-playback method. The results showed that the similarity between the real and virtual textures generated by our approach was significantly higher.

Purpose The data which is available to surgeons before, during and after surgery is steadily increasing in quantity as well as diversity. When planning a patient's treatment, this large amount of information can be difficult to interpret. To aid in processing the information, new methods need to be found to present multimodal patient data, ideally combining textual, imagery, temporal and 3D data in a holistic and context-aware system. Methods We present an open-source framework which allows handling of patient data in a virtual reality (VR) environment. By using VR technology, the workspace available to the surgeon is maximized and 3D patient data is rendered in stereo, which increases depth perception. The framework organizes the data into workspaces and contains tools which allow users to control, manipulate and enhance the data. Due to the framework's modular design, it can easily be adapted and extended for various clinical applications. Results The framework was evaluated by clinical personnel (77 participants). The majority of the group stated that a complex surgical situation is easier to comprehend by using the framework, and that it is very well suited for education. Furthermore, the application to various clinical scenarios-including the simulation of excitation propagation in the human atrium-demonstrated the framework's adaptability. As a feasibility study, the framework was used during the planning phase of the surgical removal of a large central carcinoma from a patient's liver. Conclusion The clinical evaluation showed a large potential and high acceptance for the VR environment in a medical context. The various applications confirmed that the framework is easily extended and can be used in real-time simulation as well as for the manipulation of complex anatomical structures.

This study explores whether using immersive virtual reality technology (iVR) in a virtual simulated store (VSS) enhances perceived telepresence and usability compared to conventional desktop technology. Two experiments were carried out in a between-groups methodological design that involved a total of 111 participants who completed a simulated shopping trip. In the first experiment a conventional desktop computer setup was used to create the VSS using mouse and keyboard for navigation. The second experiment used iVR(1) technology including a head-mounted display, body-tracking sensors, and hand-held motion-tracked controllers, which enabled navigation via body movement in a walk-around iVR environment. Participants purchased grocery items within each VSS2 environment, and post-hoc measures of perceived telepresence and usability ratings were compared. Results showed that participants in the iVR group experienced stronger feelings of immersion and perceived naturalness of interactions with the store environment compared to the desktop group. Both factors potentially lead to enhanced perceived telepresence. However, the visual realism of virtual products and the grasping interface for iVR control of product inspection could be further enhanced by advances in iVR technology. This study has implications for food marketing research as the use of immersive iVR can potentially lead to more naturalistic shopping behaviour in VSSs.

Background Agriculture is one of the most hazardous occupations in the USA. Especially, tractor rollover incidents are the leading cause of farming-related injuries or deaths. This study examines the effect of a VR intervention (Virtual Reality Intervention for Safety Education; VRISE) on behavioral intentions for occupational safety and identifies a psychological mechanism that shows how the immersive technology works. Methods VRISE was developed by a multidisciplinary team of agricultural educators, computer scientists and communication specialists. It was designed to provide a virtual environment where users practice tractor operation and try to avoid several rollover hazards. The participants (291 high school students) were recruited at the 2019 National Future Farmers Association Convention & Expo and randomly assigned to one of three conditions: two different types of control groups (Control(1): No treatment group and Control(2): 2D Screen group) and the treatment group. Results Findings show that, through the immersive VR experience, the VR intervention enhanced perceived threat of tractor-related accidents which in turn, led to improved behavioral intentions for tractor safety. Conclusions Findings shed light on the effectiveness of a VR intervention to improve public health outcomes, especially in occupational safety education, where unsafe practices often result in injury and fatality. Z8 0

Objective. To validate the VOXEL-MAN TempoSurg simulator for temporal bone dissection. Study Design. Prospective international study. Setting. Otolaryngology departments of 2 academic health care institutions in the United Kingdom and United States. Subjects and Methods. Eighty-five subjects were recruited consisting of an experienced and referent group. Participants performed a standardized familiarization session and temporal bone dissection task. Realism, training effectiveness, and global impressions were evaluated across 21 domains using a 5-point Likert-type scale. A score of 4 was the minimum threshold for acceptability. Results. The experienced group comprised 25 otolaryngology trainers who had performed 150 mastoid operations. The referent group comprised 60 trainees (mean otolaryngology experience of 2.9 years). Familiarization took longer in the experienced group (P = .01). User-friendliness was positively rated (mean score 4.1). Seventy percent of participants rated anatomical appearance as acceptable. Trainers rated drill ergonomics worse than did trainees (P = .01). Simulation temporal bone training scored highly (mean score 4.3). Surgical anatomy, drill navigation, and hand-eye coordination accounted for this. Trainees were more likely to recommend temporal bone simulation to a colleague than were trainers (P = .01). Transferability of skills to the operating room was undecided (mean score 3.5). Conclusion. Realism of the VOXEL-MAN virtual reality temporal bone simulator is suboptimal in its current version. Nonetheless, it represents a useful adjunct to existing training methods and is particularly beneficial for novice surgeons before performing cadaveric temporal bone dissection. Improvements in realism, specifically drill ergonomics and visual-spatial perception during deeper temporal bone dissection, are warranted.

The design of an embodied conversational agent that promotes physical activity to young Chinese adults living in the United States is described, along with specific cultural adaptations performed to tailor the agent to Chinese culture. Results of a pilot study comparing the Chinese exercise coach agent to another adapted to American culture demonstrated that participants found the Chinese agent more interesting, but were more persuaded by the American agent to change their attitudes towards exercise. Overall, participants reported high levels of satisfaction with and trust in the agent, across both conditions. Qualitative analysis of interviews was carried out to examine participants' overall impression of the experience, and their perceptions of the cultural adaptations. We discuss possible explanations of our results, and propose future improvements for culturally adapted conversational agents, tailored to the Chinese community.

France is among the few countries that have integrated astronomy in primary school levels. However, for fifteen years, a lot of studies have shown that children have difficulties in understanding elementary astronomic phenomena such as day/night alternation, seasons or moon phases' evolution. To understand these phenomena, learners have to mentally construct 3D perceptions of aster motions and to understand how light propagates from an allocentric point of view. Therefore, 4-5 grades children (8 to 11 years old), who are developing their spatial cognition, have many difficulties to assimilate geometric optical problems that are linked to astronomy. To make astronomical learning more efficient for young pupils, we have designed an Augmented Inquiry-Based Learning Environment (AIBLE): HELIOS. Because manipulations in astronomy are intrinsically not possible, we propose to manipulate the underlying model. With HELIOS, virtual replicas of the Sun, Moon and Earth are directly manipulated from tangible manipulations. This digital support combines the possibilities of Augmented Reality (AR) while maintaining intuitive interactions following the principles of didactic of sciences. Light properties are taken into account and shadows of Earth and Moon are directly produced by an omnidirectional light source associated to the virtual Sun. This AR environment provides users with experiences they would otherwise not be able to experiment in the physical world. Our main goal is that students can take active control of their learning, express and support their ideas, make predictions and hypotheses, and test them by conducting investigations.

Immersive virtual reality (IVR) technology has demonstrated positive educational outcomes related to its use and is gaining traction in educational and training settings; IVR is expected to have widespread adoption within the classroom in the upcoming years. However, the educational potential of IVR with children has not been thoroughly investigated, especially as a tool for problem-solving skills. Therefore, this study was designed to answer the following questions: (1) Is IVR a useful tool to learn and practice problem-solving skills? More specifically, do children using IVR solve a game better than those using a tablet application or a board game? (2) Does IVR provide a more engaging experience for children to practice problem-solving skills than on a tablet or a board game? (3) Do problem-solving skills learned with IVR technology transfer to real-life (physical game)? Children (n = 120) aged 7-9.9 years were randomly assigned to a problem-solving game in one of three conditions: board game, tablet, or IVR. The results showed that, overall, the percentage of children who completed the problem-solving game was higher in the IVR condition (77.5%), compared with those in the tablet (32.5%) or board game (30%) conditions. We also found that the interest and enjoyment scores of participants using IVR were significantly higher than participants in the other two conditions, and that the children in the IVR condition were able to learn how to solve the problem and transfer their learning to the physical game. IVR is a technology capable of engaging interest and motivating the user, as well as having the potential to assist in cognitive processing and knowledge transfer.

Augmented reality technology is attracting increased attention, given the popularity of the smartphone. The utilisation of the smartphone with AR technology is also enabling mobile augmented reality (MAR) to become accessible. Stereoscopic vision offers users the benefit of depth perception, which can help improve user memory. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the effect on knowledge retention using MAR with stereoscopic vision. An experiment to compare a stereoscopic-based MAR application and a paper-based manual was designed to test the participants' knowledge retention on a product part and disassembly process. The developed MAR adopted a smartphone and headset case to provide a stereoscopic view to the user. The experiment consisted of both pre-test and post-test phases where the pre-test phase examined the participant's knowledge about the product, and the post-test phase focused on how much information the participants could recall. The post-test phase was conducted after 48 h following the pre-test phase since long-term memory required several hours in which to stabilise. The results showed that the MAR group had an advantage over the paper-based manual group for both information retentions having a mean score of 8.89 from the MAR group, compared with 6.33 for the paper-based manual group. Moreover, the MAR group was observed to have fewer errors in the post-test with a mean score of 0.53, whereas the paper-based achieved a score of 2.2. This result indicated that the MAR group and the paper-based manual group had equivalent performance in the completion time without the assistance tool. In addition, MAR had a better mean score for the subjective feedback (usefulness = 4.47, ease of use 4.18 and satisfaction = 4.07).

The spread of three-dimensional (3D) city models has made it possible to present spatial information about cities in 3D and thus to increase the spatial perceptions of users. With the CityGML standard developed in this context, the concept of level of detail (LoD) for 3D spatial data has started to be used instead of the concept of scale traditionally used for maps. Thus, standards have been set for the production of urban models at different levels of detail according to different application requirements. In this study, by using airborne LiDAR data, a 3D city model for touristic purposes at LoD3 is created for Eminonu Square and its surroundings within the borders of Istanbul Historical Peninsula. As the model is designed for touristic purposes, the level of detail of structures which are not located in the region where the buildings selected as references, is reduced by using the 3D building generalization method. In the game engine-based presentation, the integration of the model with OpenStreetMap (OSM) is provided so that users could access location and address information while interactively navigating within the model and the information content of the model is enriched with the attributes added to the structures.

Stuart Hall proposed the "encoding/decoding model of communication" for the theoretical method of media information production and dissemination in 1973. In 1980, he further proposed the research of classic contemporary culture titled "Encoding/Decoding", which explained how media producers can "encode" an object, feeling, and ideas. Message in the media to achieve the purpose of disseminating information. In addition, "decoding" is the process and method of how the media message can be perceived by the "receiver" after being transformed and translated. It has been explained that the concept of encoding and decoding has a great influence on the research of different cultural media communication from the analogy to the digital age through many kinds of research. However, with the rapid development of digital media technology, we are faced with the production methods of information in tangible and intangible media, and most of them are translated in virtual form in programming languages or digital symbols. Encoding and decoding of digital symbols and codes has gradually changed the way we understand perception. In this paper, we propose the "Gaussian Sensor System", which consists of three parts: Gausstoys magnetic sensor module, video/audio encoding and decoding, and interactive installation art. We used damped oscillator magnetic balance and Gausstoys sensor as a tangible user interface (TUI), and integrated the Gaussian sensor into the interactive installation art. When the user intervenes with the floating magnet device and disturbs the magnetic field, the gaussian sensor will "encode" the human analogy behavior. Then the data of human behavior is transformed into visual video and sound feedback. The RGB color of visual video and frequency feedback of audio on the screen is the "decoding" of perception. Therefore, in our Gaussian Sensor System, "balance" is generated through the floating magnetic force in our artwork. After the user "intervenes", the entire behavior is transformed into a digital reproduction of video/audio and then transmitted to the user the perception feedback of color and sound. Our creative design has been shown to "Tsing Hua Effects 2020: STEM with A" Technology and Art Festival of Tsing Hua University in Taiwan and "Art Gallery, 2016 SIGGRAPH Asia" in Macau. In the past, many applications of Gaussian Sensor were used in interactive games or interactive learning, but our application was in "interactive installation art". We applied the damped oscillator magnetic balance as a tangible interface device, which is quite rare in HCI applications or interactive art. In the future, the media in the digital age that we are facing will gradually transform real-world cognitions through digital programming languages to produce new perceptions. At present, many kinds of research in HCI field have explained how to experience hearing, taste, and touch in digital media. The encoding and decoding of digital media will be one of the important topics in HCI in the future. Our creative design can be applied to more HCI or TUI research fields in the future and drive users to experience more diverse perceptions through digital media.

When presented with asymmetric vibrations, humans experience an illusory force, similar to the sensation of being pulled in a particular direction. A pulling illusion has also been used in new display elements for a virtual reality content and a pedestrian navigation system. However, the basic design of asymmetric vibration stimuli that can induce this illusion has not yet been determined. In particular, it is unclear as to which part of the vibration waveform should be asymmetric to induce an illusion. To better understand the design of asymmetric vibration stimuli that can induce a pulling illusion, we evaluated the effect of the illusion corresponding to the waveform deformation due to a change in phase difference of asymmetric-vibration frequency components. The results of a psychophysical experiment demonstrate that when the phase differences of the fundamental and second harmonic waves of the asymmetric vibration are close to 0 degrees or -180 degrees, the illusion is more likely to occur. This result implies that the difference in the rate by which the acceleration changes at each polarity contributes to the illusion.

Integration of technology within problem-based learning curricula is expanding; however, information regarding student experiences and attitudes about the integration of such technologies is limited. This study aimed to evaluate pre-clinical medical student perceptions and use patterns of the "Road to Birth" (RtB) software, a novel program designed to support human maternal anatomy and physiology education. Second-year medical students at a large midwestern American university participated in a prospective, mixed-methods study. The RtB software is available as a mobile smartphone/tablet application and in immersive virtual reality. The program was integrated into problem-based learning activities across a three-week obstetrics teaching period. Student visuospatial ability, weekly program usage, weekly user satisfaction, and end-of-course focus group interview data were obtained. Survey data were analyzed and summarized using descriptive statistics. Focus group interview data were analyzed using inductive thematic analysis. Of the eligible students, 66% (19/29) consented to participate in the study with 4 students contributing to the focus group interview. Students reported incremental knowledge increases on weekly surveys (69.2% week one, 71.4% week two, and 78.6% week three). Qualitative results indicated the RtB software was perceived as a useful educational resource; however, its interactive nature could have been further optimized. Students reported increased use of portable devices over time and preferred convenient options when using technology incorporated into the curriculum. This study identifies opportunities to better integrate technology into problem-based learning practices in medical education. Further empirical research is warranted with larger and more diverse student samples.

Several innovative measures in traffic control applied in Europe have successfully improved the comfort and safety of cycling, among which is the green waves for cyclists. Consecutive traffic lights are synchronised to create a green wave, increasing comfort and decreasing waiting times and related deliberate red-light running. This study focused on exploring the user acceptance of green wave systems and the user evaluation of six distinct interface designs (Le. numeric-based countdown, dot-based vertical countdown, dot-based clockwise countdown, LED line, LED road surface, on-bike speed indicator). Results indicate a preference for three systems: numeric-based countdown, LED line and LED road surface. Results also show a significant influence of nationality on the evaluation of the interfaces. Based on our findings, we argue that the numeric-based countdown represents the most promising option for future adaptive green wave implementations. The outcomes of the present study represent a useful evidence and guidance for researchers, designers and decision makers in the field of green waves, mobility and traffic safety.

Embodied virtual agents have been increasingly implemented in e-commerce websites to provide a more natural, social, and engaging way to deliver product information to online shoppers. The media equation theory posits that users' responses to computer agents adhere to human-to human social rules; hence, effective designs of embodied virtual agents should be based upon social psychology rules. One such rule is the notion of specialisation. While the concept of media specialisation in terms of TVs, computers, websites, web agents, smartphones, and voice assistants have been examined; no studies have yet to explore the effects of specialists and generalist embodied virtual agents in a multi-product category online store. To bridge this research gap, an experiment was conducted in which university undergraduates (n = 132) were randomly divided to interact with either a multi-product category website that incorporated specialist virtual agents or a multi-product category website that deployed a generalist virtual agent. Consistent with the hypotheses of this study, it was shown that the use of specialist virtual agents (as compared to a generalist virtual agent) enhanced perceptions of agent expertise, information credibility, website trust (ability, benevolence, integrity), and purchase intention. Meditation analyses revealed that the effects of agent specialisation on purchase intention were mediated by perceived virtual agent expertise, perceived information credibility, and website trust (ability, benevolence, integrity). Finally, the effects of agent specialisation were shown to be more evident for females than for males. Theoretical and practical implications related to virtual agent specialisation in the context of multi-product category online stores are discussed in this paper.

Metaverse is a platform that can extend human interaction beyond a limited real space and into an infinite space using virtual reality and augmented reality. Simple and intuitive wearable interfaces suitable for metaverse environments are a significant challenge. Non-invasive brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are potential alternatives. In this paper, we introduce a novel brain-based interface system based on tactile and sensory perception. It is a preliminary study for the development of next-generation neurohaptic interface technology that enables communication and control in the metaverse by skin touch. We designed a novel experimental environment to acquire brain signals generated during skin touch. Through the experiment, we collected the electroencephalogram (EEG) signals with respect to different input classes by combining commonly used touch gestures and body parts. Twelve subjects were recruited for the experiment and evaluated classification performances using machine learning and deep learning approaches to decode the user's intentional skin touch. Hence, we could confirm the feasibility of decoding skin touch-related EEG signals to develop the proposed on-skin interface technology.

PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to explore user engagement (UE) within the Metaverse (MV) environment, emphasising the crucial role of immersive experiences (IEs). This study aims to understand how IEs influence UE and the mediating effects of hedonic value (HV) and utilitarian value (UV) on this relationship. Additionally, the authors examine the moderating impacts of user perceptions (UPs) such as headset comfort, simulation sickness, prior knowledge and ease of use on the utilisation of the MV. This study seeks to elucidate the dynamics of virtual travel at a pre-experience stage, enhancing the comprehension of how digital platforms can revolutionise UE in travel and tourism.Design/methodology/approachThis study used a triangulation methodology to provide a thorough investigation into the factors influencing UE in the MV. A systematic literature review (SLR) was conducted to frame the research context and identify relevant variables. To gather empirical data, 25 interviews were performed with active MV users, supplemented by a survey distributed to 118 participants. The data collected was analysed using structural equation modelling (SEM) to test the hypothesised relationships between IEs, UPs, HV and UV and their combined effect on UE within the MV.FindingsThe findings from the SEM indicate that engaging in the MV leads to a positive IE, which significantly enhances UE. Additionally, it was discovered that HV and UV play a mediating role in strengthening the link between IEs and UE. Furthermore, UPs, including headset comfort, simulation sickness, prior knowledge and ease of use, are significant moderators in the relationship between IEs and MV usage. These insights provide a nuanced understanding of the variables that contribute to and enhance UE in virtual environments.Originality/valueThis research contributes original insights into the burgeoning field of digital tourism by focusing on the MV, a rapidly evolving platform. It addresses the gap in the existing literature by delineating the complex interplay between IEs, UPs and value constructs within the MV. By using a mixed-method approach and advanced statistical analysis, this study provides a comprehensive model of UE specific to virtual travel platforms. The findings are particularly valuable for developers and marketers in the hospitality and tourism sectors seeking to capitalise on digital transformation and enhance UE through immersive technologies.

One of the most accurate yet still practical representation of material appearance is the Bidirectional Texture Function (BTF). The BTF can be viewed as an extension of Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF) for additional spatial information that includes local visual effects such as shadowing, interreflection, subsurface-scattering, etc. However, the shift from BRDF to BTF represents not only a huge leap in respect to the realism of material reproduction, but also related high memory and computational costs stemming from the storage and processing of massive BTF data. In this work, we argue that each opaque material, regardless of its surface structure, can be safely substituted by a BRDF without the introduction of a significant perceptual error when viewed from an appropriate distance. Therefore, we ran a set of psychophysical studies over 25 materials to determine so-called critical viewing distances, i.e. the minimal distances at which the material spatial structure (texture) cannot be visually discerned. Our analysis determined such typical distances typical for several material categories often used in interior design applications. Furthermore, we propose a combination of computational features that can predict such distances without the need for a psychophysical study. We show that our work can significantly reduce rendering costs in applications that process complex virtual scenes.

Introduction: Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) can provide the tools to safely master minimally invasive surgery (MIS) skills in patient-free environments and receive immediate objective feedback without the constant presence of an instructor. However, TEL-based systems tend to work isolated from one another, focus on different skills, and fail to provide contents without a sound pedagogical background. Objective: The objective of this descriptive study is to present in detail EASIER, an innovative TEL platform for surgical and interventional training, as well as the results of its validation. Methods: EASIER provides a Learning Management System (LMS) for institutions and content creators that can connect and integrate TEL "external assets" (virtual reality simulators, augmented box trainers, augmented videos, etc.) addressing different skills. The platform integrates all skills under an Assessment Module that measures skills' progress in different courses. Finally, it provides content creators with a pedagogical model to scaffold contents while retaining flexibility to approach course design with different training philosophies in mind. Three courses were developed and hosted in the platform to validate it with end-users in terms of usability, performance, learning results in the courses and student self-perception on learning.Results: In total 111 volunteers completed the validation. The study was limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which limited access to external assets (virtual reality simulators). Nevertheless, usability was rated with 73.1 in the System Usability Scale. Most positive aspects on performance were easiness to access the platform, easiness to change the configuration and not requiring additional plug-ins to use the platform. The platform was rated above average in the six scales of the User Experience Questionnaire. Overall, student results improved significantly across the three courses (p < 0.05).Conclusions: This study provides, within its limitations, evidence on the usefulness of the EASIER platform for distance learning of MIS skills. Results show the potential impact of the platform and are an encouraging boost for the future, especially in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The purpose of this work is to gauge user opinions on vehicle dashboard design to ascertain the criteria important to consumers for the next generation of automobile dashboards. The results provide insight into the aspects of dashboard design that users feel are not beneficial and thereby lead to better informed dashboard designs in the future. Participants reviewed the physical ergonomics of their vehicles very positively. However, in dashboard design and instrument panel layout they were unsure of what an ideal dashboard would look like, often showing contradictory views. Controls on the steering wheel were also well reviewed but controls near the gear stick were not. In terms of vehicle technology Satnavs received good scoring for effectiveness but were reported as distracting. IVISs were negatively reviewed. Finally, automation was reviewed as potentially improving the daily lives of individuals but trust in automation is still a problem. Overall, this study showed that whilst dashboards are relatively well reviewed there are still issues to be addressed regarding in-vehicle technology and distraction, as well as improving public opinion on automated vehicles. Results represent the first stage in research studying current dashboards and distraction of in-vehicle technology and the design of automated dashboards of the future using virtual reality environments to create optimal console designs for drivers. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Visualization is an important skill required to understand 3-Dimensional (3D) geometry concepts involving solids. However, 3D visualization is fairly difficult as it involves complex tasks like mental rotation and spatial transformations. Traditional methods of teaching 3D solids concepts such as static 2D images and physical models are not adequate to build these abilities in students. Also, existing geometry software packages restricts the user to interact and manipulate objects on the computer screens and not in real 3D space. In this paper, we have designed and developed an Augmented Reality (AR) based application-GeoSolvAR, that targets middle school students for improving their visualization skills. Learning activities in GeoSolvAR build on theoretical foundations of Predict-Observe-Explain (POE) strategy to teach the concepts of 3D views like the top, the side and the front view. This paper also reports results and observations obtained from a qualitative pilot study conducted on four 7th grade students. Purpose of the study was to know students' perception of GeoSolvAR's role in helping them visualize 3D solids and to encounter challenges faced by them while interacting with GeoSolvAR.

Introduction Research suggests that virtual reality (VR) experiences can be helpful as adjunctive tools in psychotherapy for some mental health conditions. VR is a computer-generated experience that produces a feeling of being immersed in a different environment. VR experiences could be useful in the treatment of substance use disorders, and several are currently being tested. However, few psychotherapists report using VR experiences in their practices, even when doing so is well-supported. Understanding key barriers and concerns about using VR among drug/alcohol counselors is important to ultimately encouraging adoption. Methods Licensed counselors (N = 101) who provide treatment to clients with substance use disorders were recruited via email Listservs, professional organizations, and social media. Participants viewed a 15-minute educational video about VR and then completed a survey of their views about using it with their clients. Results Most clinicians (82%) believed they would be likely to use a VR experience in drug/alcohol counseling, and 81% believed it would be appropriate for most of their clients. A minority (19%) noted important concerns, including that their clients may be skeptical of it (15%), cost (14%), and space (10%). Those who had cost and space concerns were less likely to report high use intentions (OR = 0.29 and OR = 031, both p < .05, respectively). Conclusions Findings suggest that addictions counselors are eager to use VR, but key barriers should be addressed. VR developers should incorporate features to encourage trust among users, design experiences for small spaces, and explore ways of supporting the purchase of VR systems for counselors.

Thermal experiences in outdoor and semi-outdoor environments contribute significantly to the holistic experience of nature and its restorative benefits. Culture may be a significant factor influencing the large variations of human thermal perception in semi-outdoor and outdoor environments. This research aims to compare the differences in thermal pleasure, adaptive behaviours, and restorative benefits between two cultural groups, Chinese and Australian, undergoing identical exposures in semi-outdoor environments. Pretest-posttest experiments were conducted in climate chambers with 19 Chinese and 19 Australian participants. A multisensory immersive Virtual Reality method was adopted for the simulation of two semi-outdoor environmental scenarios, one providing only direct sunlight exposure and the other including the adaptive opportunity for subjects to select between direct sunlight or shade. When exposed to the sunlight-only scenario, most of the Chinese participants felt thermally unpleasant and engaged in sunlight avoidance behaviours, while majority of the Australian participants felt thermally pleasant and engaged in sunlight maximising behaviours. There were also significant differences in restorative benefits. Moreover, access to shade as an adaptive opportunity can potentially reduce cultural differences in thermal pleasure and restorative benefits resulting from outdoor exposures. Different notions of skin beauty between Chinese and Australian cultural groups (fair vs suntanned skin tone) may have contributed to divergent environmental attitudes regarding sunlight exposure, resulting in different thermal pleasure responses and adaptive behavioural patterns. The importance of culture-specific and inclusive design should be promoted by implementing adaptive design strategies to satisfy the diverse thermal preferences of semi-outdoor and outdoor users.

With the rise of advanced and affordable sensors offering continuous monitoring of city infrastructure, cities are increasingly seeking to become more 'smart' and are adopting data-driven approaches to help meet sustainability goals. In the area of building energy efficiency, closely coupled with this effort is the prevalence of building energy benchmarking policies, which require public disclosure of vast new quantities of building-level energy data at urban scales (i.e., open urban energy data). While existing research efforts have focused on the potential of this data to transform energy efficiency markets and investments in the real estate sector, little research has been dedicated to assessing this information's value to the general public. Given that achieving energy reductions in the built environment will require not only energy efficiency investments, but also greater awareness, engagement, and action from ordinary citizens, we study the potential of open urban energy data in providing citizen benefits. Energy-cyber-physical systems offer a pertinent framework to link data from the virtual world to citizens' physical reality in order to improve their understanding and decision making. Adopting an energy-cyber-physical system perspective, we aim to connect open urban energy data to citizens through the development and evaluation of a novel community-scale energy feedback system. This mobile cyber-physical system transforms building-level electricity consumption and production data across Georgia Tech's campus into a mobile application consisting of three features: spatial feedback, energy supply feedback, and energy consumption feedback. Augmented-reality visualization elements are integrated into the system, providing Georgia Tech community members a direct link between their experienced physical environment and data stored in the virtual world. Applying a user-centered design approach, prospective users evaluate the system via thinking aloud sessions and user surveys to assess understandings and perceptions of open urban energy data for the Georgia Tech campus. The results contribute to literature seeking to create energy feedback systems at the community-scale and expand research investigating citizen reactions to and opinions of open urban energy data. This research is an integral step to further engagement and participation from the public to help achieve a sustainable and citizen-valued energy future.

This paper presents an assessment of automatically generated multimodal referring expressions as produced by embodied conversational agents in a virtual world. The algorithm used for this purpose employs general principles of human motor control and cooperativity in dialogues that can be parameterised so as to vary the precision of the pointing gestures and the amount of linguistic information included in the referring expressions. The study assessed how native speakers of English and Japanese perceived three different algorithmic outputs for multimodal referring behaviour in terms of understandability, human-likeness and a social practice (selling). Results show that users generally prefer mobile agents that are economical in their linguistic descriptions to stationary verbose agents. They also show the need for further calibration of the algorithm to accommodate the differences between the two groups. In addition to the detailed description of the set up and results of the study, the paper discusses implications for the design and use of agents, methodological issues that arose while conducting the cross-cultural study and directions for future work. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

To enable real walking in a virtual environment (VE) that is larger than the available physical space, redirection techniques that introduce multisensory conflicts between visual and nonvisual cues to manipulate different aspects of a user's trajectory could be applied. When applied within certain thresholds, these manipulations could go unnoticed and immersion remains intact. Research effort has been spent on identifying these thresholds and a wide range of thresholds was reported in different studies. These differences in thresholds could be explained by many factors such as individual differences, walking speed, or context settings such as environment design, cognitive load, distractors, etc. In this paper, we present a study to investigate the role of gender on curvature redirection thresholds (RDTs) using the maximum likelihood procedure with the classical two-alternative force choice task. Results show high variability in individuals' RDTs, and that on average women have higher curvature RDTs than men. Furthermore, results also confirm existing findings about the negative correlation between walking speed and curvature RDTs.

Museums are important places for people's access to historical and cultural information. Therefore, people's experience and perception of information content shall be the main orientation of museum design. By using multiple media to build the exhibition space and interface, designers aim to form varied spatial effects and thereby combine educational functions with entertaining activities. The research content is divided into three parts: 1. An overview of the collisions between human and spatial scenarios in museums; 2. Observation of the expression of human-computer interaction technology in museum information transmission; 3. A brief description of the relation between media convergence and the spatial visual effects experienced by people in museums. In this paper, based on the aforesaid three aspects, the author unfolded a comprehensive discussion and explored the application of these theories in the design of information transmission in the narrative space of museums.

This article presents a method for measuring the quality of interaction in social mobile robotic telepresence. The methodology is in part based on Adam Kendon's theory of F-formations. The theory is based on observations of how bodies naturally orient themselves during interaction between people in real life settings. In addition, two presence questionnaires (Temple Presence Inventory and Networked Minds Social Presence Inventory), designed to measure the users' perceptions of others and the environment when experienced through a communication medium are used. The perceived presence and ease of use are correlated to the spatial formations between the robot and an actor. The proposed methodology is validated experimentally on a dataset consisting of interactions between an elder (actor) and 21 different users being trained in piloting a mobile robotic telepresence unit. The evaluation has shown that these tools are suitable for evaluating mobile robotic telepresence and also that correlations between the tools used exist. Further, these results give important guidelines on how to improve the interface in order to increase the quality of interaction.

While avatars are frequently employed as a user interface (UI) element for improving user experience in human computer interaction, the current design of avatars is primarily dominated by non-Arabian cultures. To the best of our knowledge, no previous research or guidelines (based on empirical evidence) can be found for avatar design in the context of Arabian culture. Aiming to address this gap, we conducted an exploratory study to investigate how avatars can be designed for Arab users. Following a hybrid approach of deductive and inductive reasoning, we reviewed the literature on UI design for Arabian culture, (non-Arabian) avatar design in human-computer interaction research, and social response theory. Subsequently, we conducted 32 semi-structured interviews with Arabian culture experts, psychologists, and potential users. Based on thematic analysis of the interviews, we developed a set of six general guidelines for the design of avatars for users from Arabian culture. These six guidelines are expected to provide system or UI designers the ability to design and employ appropriate avatars that can promote Arab users' experience and engagement. Z8 1

The fundamental issues in Augmented Reality (AR) are on how to naturally mediate the reality with virtual content as seen by users. In AR applications with Optical See-Through Head-Mounted Displays (OST-HMD), the issues often raise the problem of rendering color on the OST-HMD consistently to input colors. However, due to various display constraints and eye properties, it is still a challenging task to indistinguishably reproduce the colors on OST-HMDs. An approach to solve this problem is to pre-process the input color so that a user perceives the output color on the display to be the same as the input. We propose a color calibration method for OST-HMDs. We start from modeling the physical optics in the rendering and perception process between the HMD and the eye. We treat the color distortion as a semi-parametric model which separates the non-linear color distortion and the linear color shift. We demonstrate that calibrated images regain their original appearance on two OST-HMD setups with both synthetic and real datasets. Furthermore, we analyze the limitations of the proposed method and remaining problems of the color reproduction in OST-HMDs. We then discuss how to realize more practical color reproduction methods for future HMD-eye system.

To enable real walking in a virtual environment (VE) that is larger than the available physical space, redirection techniques that introduce multisensory conflicts between visual and nonvisual cues to manipulate different aspects of a user's trajectory could be applied. When applied within certain thresholds, these manipulations could go unnoticed and immersion remains intact. Research effort has been spent on identifying these thresholds and a wide range of thresholds was reported in different studies. These differences in thresholds could be explained by many factors such as individual differences, walking speed, or context settings such as environment design, cognitive load, distractors, etc. In this paper, we present a study to investigate the role of gender on curvature redirection thresholds (RDTs) using the maximum likelihood procedure with the classical two-alternative force choice task. Results show high variability in individuals' RDTs, and that on average women have higher curvature RDTs than men. Furthermore, results also confirm existing findings about the negative correlation between walking speed and curvature RDTs.

Objective. The enabling technology of visual prosthetics for the blind is making rapid progress. However, there are still uncertainties regarding the functional outcomes, which can depend on many design choices in the development. In visual prostheses with a head-mounted camera, a particularly challenging question is how to deal with the gaze-locked visual percept associated with spatial updating conflicts in the brain. The current study investigates a recently proposed compensation strategy based on gaze-contingent image processing with eye-tracking. Gaze-contingent processing is expected to reinforce natural-like visual scanning and reestablished spatial updating based on eye movements. The beneficial effects remain to be investigated for daily life activities in complex visual environments. Approach. The current study evaluates the benefits of gaze-contingent processing versus gaze-locked and gaze-ignored simulations in the context of mobility, scene recognition and visual search, using a virtual reality simulated prosthetic vision paradigm with sighted subjects. Main results. Compared to gaze-locked vision, gaze-contingent processing was consistently found to improve the speed in all experimental tasks, as well as the subjective quality of vision. Similar or further improvements were found in a control condition that ignores gaze-dependent effects, a simulation that is unattainable in the clinical reality. Significance. Our results suggest that gaze-locked vision and spatial updating conflicts can be debilitating for complex visually-guided activities of daily living such as mobility and orientation. Therefore, for prospective users of head-steered prostheses with an unimpaired oculomotor system, the inclusion of a compensatory eye-tracking system is strongly endorsed.

A better understanding of how intentions and traits are perceived from body movements is required for the design of more effective virtual characters that behave in a socially realistic manner. For this purpose, realistic body motion, captured from human movements, is being used more frequently for creating characters with natural animations in games and entertainment. However, it is not always clear for programmers and designers which specific motion parameters best convey specific information such as certain emotions, intentions, or traits. We conducted two experiments to investigate whether the perceived traits of actors could be determined from their body motion, and whether these traits were associated with their perceived intentions. We first recorded body motions from 26 professional actors, who were instructed to move in a "hero"-like or a "villain"-like manner. In the first experiment, 190 participants viewed individual video recordings of these actors and were required to provide ratings to the body motion stimuli along a series of different cognitive dimensions (intentions, attractiveness, dominance, trustworthiness, and distinctiveness). The intersubject ratings across observers were highly consistent, suggesting that social traits are readily determined from body motion. Moreover, correlational analyses between these ratings revealed consistent associations across traits, for example, that perceived "good" intentions were associated with higher ratings of attractiveness and dominance. Experiment 2 was designed to elucidate the qualitative body motion cues that were critical for determining specific intentions and traits from the hero- and villain-like body movements. The results revealed distinct body motions that were readily associated with the perception of either "good" or "bad" intentions. Moreover, regression analyses revealed that these ratings accurately predicted the perception of the portrayed character type. These findings indicate that intentions and social traits are communicated effectively via specific sets of body motion features. Furthermore, these results have important implications for the design of the motion of virtual characters to convey desired social information.

Pull-the-Strings presents a mapping model for digital puppetry based on a transparent framework to support generic device controllers and generic tools. Digital puppetry requires a creative interaction design, in particular in the way designers map the puppet to the puppeteer using specific devices. This process depends on a constantly changing interface technology, which limits the reuse of devices and mappings. This paper proposes a methodology and a set of tools that facilitate the mapping process, and promote the recycling of technologies. A flexible and generic environment independent from device specifications. By abstracting the hardware layer, the artist is motivated to think in terms of signal flow, establishing relations through meaningful mappings instead of handling the diverse specifications of each device and application. Pull-the-Strings is a data-flow ecosystem that focus on the functional usage of control signals. It provides a scalable environment for building semantic blocks that connect, transform and generate signals for the manipulation of virtual objects. Its goal is to make technology as transparent as possible, facilitating connections and reducing the obstacles between the performer and the performing object. On the other hand, it proposes an interaction design space that takes into account the manipulation and perception distance, responding to the specifications of the digital puppetry medium. This model was evaluated comparing a set of tools and methods with experienced and non-experienced users.

Many applications in teleoperation and virtual reality call for the implementation of effective means of displaying to the human operator information on the softness and other mechanical properties of objects being touched. The ability of humans to detect softness of different objects by tactual exploration is intimately related to both kinesthetic and cutaneous perception, and haptic displays should be designed so as to address such multimodal perceptual channel. Unfortunately, accurate detection and replication of cutaneous information in all its details appears to be a formidable task for current technology, causing most of today's haptic displays to merely address the kinesthetic part of haptic information, In this paper, we investigate the possibility of surrogating detailed tactile information for softness discrimination, with information on the rate of spread of the contact area between the finger and the specimen as the contact force increases, Devices for implementing such a perceptual channel are described, and a practical application to a mini-invasive surgery tool is presented. Psychophysical test results are reported, validating the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed approach.

This study seeks to investigate the effect of pre-service foreign language teachers interactions on their continuing professional development (CPD), using a theoretical instructional design framework consisted of the three presence indicators of a Community of Inquiry (CoI) model and the Jigsaw teaching technique. The investigation was performed through a case study with thirty-five (n= 35) teachers who participated voluntarily in three consecutive tasks, by blending Sloodle as a free plug-in via the three-dimensional (3D) multi-user virtual world Open Simulator (Open Sim), with the purpose of creating virtual learning environments. A mixed-method research was conducted to be measured pre-service teachers engagement, using a validated CoI model questionnaire proposed by Arbaugh et al. (2008) for collecting the quantitative data, and secondly their opinions for participation, achievements, abilities and difficulties, when studying collaboratively with their peers for gathering the qualitative data, after finishing several learning tasks. The study findings indicate that collaborative practice-based tasks in synchronous communication modes, such as group work, team effort, instructors or peer feedback and consolidated learning material in a 3D multi-user virtual environment have enhanced the learning experience for more meaningful outcomes. The highest mean scores were adequately addressed to the teaching and social presences, indicating that pre-service teachers were enough satisfied due to the easy expression of proposals and the sense of freedom for exchanging ideas/opinions with their colleagues. This study contributes on the fundamental issues of cooperation, socialization, retention and attendance rates rising among teachers interactions with the respect to empower not only their CPD, but also their management and learning responsibilities, based on the affordances that a 3D technology-enhanced environment can provide.

Speech anxiety (SA) training may help subjects improve their skills on keeping audiences interested in the speech and on managing calm or restless audiences. Attention and lack of attention during speeches are displayed through several nonverbal cues. Such and other nonverbal behaviors can also spread throughout a group and engage whole audiences. The current study is an inquiry into the nonverbal markers of attention and lack of attention during lectures (e.g. note taking, eye gaze towards the speaker, conduct with electronic devices such as mobile phones or laptops). Additionally, the study tries to identify nonverbal behaviors that are diffused and their spatial and time diffusion characteristics. 37 university students at the Ilmenau University of Technology have been observed during a 40-minutes lecture. A quantitative content analysis is conducted to identify patterns of behaviors depicting attention and inattention. Afterwards a qualitative content analysis is carried out to identify contagious behaviors and their spreading characteristics. The findings are used to design virtual audiences (VA) whose members react to each other or display observable audience responses (OAR) and will be implemented into training scenarios for training university students against SA.

Over the last decades, the field of computer science has moved from specialized adaptations and add-on assistive technologies, toward universal solutions catering to a diverse set of user needs. Two paradigm shifts have arguably occurred on this journey: 1) a shift in disability perspective (from a medical model to a psychosocial and situated model) and 2) a shift from reactive accessibility efforts to proactive inclusive design efforts. In addition, we have changed our perception of the end-user (from 'Mr. Average' to situated individuals), have expanded our disciplinary epistemologies (from positivist objective knowledge to critical and empathic qualitative insights), and changed the way we build digital solutions (from plan-based with little user contact to iterative with high user contact). This article tells the story of this journey, and how these shifts have all influenced the way we think today. We argue that different ways of thinking about and arguing for universal design today are not necessary confrontations - but can be seen as evolvements over time to complement the different societal systems in which we are designing.

While adopting eco-feedback systems can lead to significant energy savings, in the region of 5-20%, research has shown that the inappropriate use of visualisation patterns and techniques decreases their effectiveness. However, existing reviews on energy feedback visualisation provide little guidance on when to use them and how to enhance their effectiveness in various scenarios. The uncertainty and lack of clarity surrounding eco-feedback visualisation techniques and their impact on end-userengagement present challenges to the design of ecofeedback systems. This paper presents the first systematic review of a wide range of energy eco-feedback visualisation techniques, including, for the first time, Augmented-Reality (AR) and thermal imaging visualisation. We analysed 82 relevant studies published between 2000 and 2021 using the PRISMA protocol for systematic reviews. The visualisation techniques have been reported under five distinct categories, which we have identified: (a) statistical visualisation, (b) architectural and geospatial visualisation, (c) game-based visualisation, (d) artistic visualisation, (e) emerging visualisation. Furthermore, they have been analysed based on the following criteria: type of visualised information, the purpose of use, end-user perception, scholar suggestions, and potential impact. The findings show that statistical visualisation techniques are essential in any energy eco-feedback system. Furthermore, they suggested combining different visualisation techniques to accommodate different user profiles, but such combinations must be carefully planned based on usage scenarios. Following this analysis, a series of considerations and good practice guidelines are presented for each of the reviewed techniques to assist practitioners in this area (e.g., designers and researchers) while providing recommendations for future work.

Virtual learning environments often use virtual characters to facilitate and improve the learning process. These characters, known as pedagogical agents, can take on different roles, such as tutors or companions. Research has highlighted the importance of various characteristics of virtual agents, including their voice or non-verbal behaviors. Little attention has been paid to the gender-specific design of pedagogical agents, although gender has an important influence on the educational process. In this article, we perform an extensive review of the literature regarding the impact of the gender of pedagogical agents on academic outcomes. Based on a detailed review of 59 articles, we analyze the influence of pedagogical agents' gender on students' academic self-evaluations and achievements to answer the following questions: (1) Do students perceive virtual agents differently depending on their own gender and the gender of the agent? (2) Does the gender of pedagogical agents influence students' academic performance and self-evaluations? (3) Are there tasks or academic situations to which a male virtual agent is better suited than a female virtual agent, and vice versa, according to empirical evidence? (4) How do a virtual agent's pedagogical roles impact these results? (5) How do a virtual agent's appearance and interactive capacities impact these results? (6) Are androgynous virtual agents a potential solution to combatting gender stereotypes? This review provides important insight to researchers on how to approach gender when designing pedagogical agents in virtual learning environments.

Head-restrained behavioral experiments in mice allow neuroscientists to observe neural circuit activity with high-resolution electrophysiological and optical imaging tools while delivering precise sensory stimuli to a behaving animal. Recently, human and rodent studies using virtual reality (VR) environments have shown VR to be an important tool for uncovering the neural mechanisms underlying spatial learning in the hippocampus and cortex, due to the extremely precise control over parameters such as spatial and contextual cues. Setting up virtual environments for rodent spatial behaviors can, however, be costly and require an extensive background in engineering and computer programming. Here, we present a simple yet powerful system based upon inexpensive, modular, open-source hardware and software that enables researchers to study spatial learning in head-restrained mice using a VR environment. This system uses coupled microcontrollers to measure locomotion and deliver behavioral stimuli while head-restrained mice run on a wheel in concert with a virtual linear track environment rendered by a graphical software package running on a single-board computer. The emphasis on distributed processing allows researchers to design flexible, modular systems to elicit and measure complex spatial behaviors in mice in order to determine the connection between neural circuit activity and spatial learning in the mammalian brain.

Endonasal transsphenoida pituitary surgery is a minimally invasive endoscopic procedure. applied to remove various kinds of pituitary tumors. To reduce the risk associated with this treatment, the surgeon must be skilled and well-prepared. Virtual endoscopy can be beneficial as a tool for training, preoperative planning and intraoperative support. This paper introduces STEPS, a virtual endoscopy system designed to aid surgeons in getting acquainted with the endoscopic view, the handling of instruments, the transsphenoidal approach and challenges associated with the procedure. STEPS also assists experienced surgeons in planning a real endoscopic intervention by getting familiar with the individual patient anatomy, identifying landmarks, planning the approach and deciding upon the ideal target position of the actual surgical activity. Besides interactive visualization using two different first-hit ray casting techniques, the application provides navigation and perception aids and the possibility to simulate the procedure, including haptic feedback and simulation of surgical instruments.

Tactile fingertip devices of vertically moving tactors have two important design parameters that significantly affect physical feedback and human tactile perception: tactor size and tactor density. However, there are a limited number of research studies that have evaluated the effect of these parameters on human tactile perception. This paper investigated the influence and interaction of these two parameters on a discrimination task. The task consisted of discriminating the spatial-period of sinusoidal gratings through the use of passive-guided touch. In two complementary experiments 40 participants performed the discrimination task under two different tactile conditions: (I) using direct bare fingertip sensing (baseline condition), and (II) using tactile displays with different tactor spacings and diameters. In both experiments differences between and within subjects were considered for Condition II, and for all test conditions the spatial-period Weber fraction for each participant was measured. Results from both experiments were consistent in indicating that tactile performance improves as tactor spacing is decreased and tactor diameter is increased. However, tactor spacings below 1.1 mm might not result in any significant further improvement. The findings of this study might help designers to choose design parameters for tactile displays based upon the cost-benefit of tactor density versus perceptual performance. Z8 0

For years now, the increasing development of virtual reality technologies and digitisation processes in architecture has been leading cultural heritage communication towards an increasingly sustainable and inclusive approach. In this sense, the accumulation of data and, consequently, of specific information that the models bring with them, offers the opportunity for numerous insights related to the conversion of parameters to achieve an even broader communication towards users with perceptual limitations. The topic of perception, although now intrinsic in the fundamental criteria of architectural design, may receive less public attention compared to more immediate issues like building accessibility. From a practical point of view, the most innovative technologies to improve the quality of life of blind subjects come mainly from neuroscience laboratories, also and above all to assess the impact of so-called sensory substitutional devices on brain activity. What is presented in this study is therefore to extend what are the operating principles of the above-mentioned tools and contextualise them within the domain of the perception of valuable architectural space, for an understanding of geometry and proportion through sound.

Virtual reality can help to learn basic laparoscopic tasks. However, no haptic feedback, which alerts for tissue slippage, is provided by most simulators, although, it might be of influence for the decrease of errors. This study explored whether visual or tactile feedback can be used to alert the surgeon of tissue slippage. Twenty-four participants performed a laparoscopic grasping task and where provided with either visual or tactile feedback about tissue slippage. The reaction time with the visual feedback was compared to the reaction time with tactile feedback signal. The results showed that when tissue slippage is simulated, tactile feedback shows significant faster reaction times (269ms) than visual feedback signals (398ms).

Background: Visual stimuli are frequently incorporated into interventions that use narratives to meet counseling, therapy, education, and clinical needs. However, the treatment efficacy of visual stimuli is unclear. This systematic review synthesizes and evaluates visual narrative interventions addressing anxiety. Methods: Databases (n = 9) and extended reference searches identified 13 original studies using visual artifacts in narrative interventions for adult anxiety. The visual stimulations were analyzed based on artifact origin, user interactivity, and functions of the stimuli. Results: Three types of visual artifacts- virtual reality (VR) (n = 4), videos (n = 4), and drawings (n = 5) were found. Dichotomous patterns of artifact origin (native vs. foreign) and interactivity (participatory vs. non-participatory) characterized the applications. A hierarchy of functions- engage, externalize, internalize, and rescript was observed. Most studies confirmed the positive effects on the varied anxiety conditions; however, unclear risk of bias and extraneous factors was present. Conclusions: Future visual narrative studies addressing adult anxiety are recommended to strengthen the current body of knowledge by using double-blinded randomized control trials with robust anxiety measures, incorporating artifact origin and user interactivity in intervention designs, considering alternative stimuli with high accessibility, such as images, and including employment-related anxiety conditions.

Objective: This study presents the design and evaluation of goal-directed arm tasks using a customised exoskeleton for children with motor disabilities (MD). A further aim was to investigate the suitability of using video games or virtual reality as motivational technologies for gamified functional exercises. Methods: An upper limb exoskeleton and two gamified solutions adapted for functional exercises have been developed. Preliminary tests have been carried out with children with motor impairments and similar disorders to assess the level of satisfaction with the use of this proposed configuration. Results: The satisfaction results regarding the usability of the exoskeleton with these immersive gamified systems have been very positive, highlighting the ease of use, adaptability, comfort, lightness and safety of the exoskeleton. Preliminary validation results of the concept idea have also been excellent, as the exoskeleton system combined with the goal-directed tasks based video game has provided the user with the perception of control from the first session. The design, based on 3D printed materials, will allow the exoskeleton to be used more widely in day care centres due to its low cost and high usability. Conclusion: Training with gamified systems that motivate the patient to perform exercises together with exoskeletons that aid movement are positively accepted by children with motor disabilities. In addition, the use of an exoskeleton seems to improve the goals achieved by the children in the games.

A range of VR products offer a variety of "extreme" experiences, providing their users with access to numerous unforgiving environments and confronting situations. This paper explores how they intensify and extend the medium's capacity for interfering in and imposing upon individual and collective perception and sensation. It locates "extreme VR" within a genealogy of the medium's own preoccupation with sensorial intensities, exploring its potential to advance certain forms of control over audiences. Suggesting the designs of "extreme VR" as forms of training in intense synthetic stimulus, it considers how they might inform wider strategies for ordering and standardizing experiences and sensibilities at scale. Not only do these extreme forms of VR register a growing techno-industrial power to immerse, incorporate and influence, they also offer the means to habituate particular regimes of socio-sensorial experience.

Purpose. Virtual reality devices, including virtual reality head-mounted displays, are becoming increasingly accessible to the general public as technological advances lead to reduced costs. However, there are numerous reports that adverse effects such as ocular discomfort and headache are associated with these! devices. To investigate these adverse effects, questionnaires that have been specifically designed for other purposes such as investigating motion sickness have often been used. The primary purpose of this study was to develop a standard questionnaire for use in investigating symptoms that result from virtual reality viewing. In addition, symptom duration and whether priming subjects elevates symptom ratings were also investigated. Methods. A list of the most frequently reported symptoms following virtual reality viewing was determined from previously published studies and used as the basis for a pilot questionnaire. The pilot questionnaire, which consisted of 12 nonocular and 11 ocular symptoms, was administered to two groups of eight subjects. One group was primed by having them complete the questionnaire before immersion; the other group completed the questionnaire postviewing only. Postviewing testing was carried out immediately after viewing and then at 2-min intervals for a further 10 min. Results. Priming subjects did not elevate symptom ratings; therefore, the data were pooled and 16 symptoms were found to increase significantly. The majority of symptoms dissipated rapidly, within 6 min after viewing. Frequency of endorsement data showed that approximately half of the symptoms on the pilot questionnaire could be discarded because < 20% of subjects experienced them. Conclusions. Symptom questionnaires to investigate virtual reality viewing can be administered before viewing, without biasing the findings, allowing calculation of the amount of change from pre- to postviewing. However, symptoms dissipate rapidly and assessment of symptoms needs to occur in the first 5 min postviewing. Thirteen symptom questions, eight nonocular and five ocular, were determined to be useful for a questionnaire specifically related to virtual reality viewing using a head-mounted display.

This paper presents a simple and efficient method of modeling synthetic vision, memory, and learning for autonomous animated characters in real-time virtual environments. The model is efficient in terms of both storage requirements and update times, and can be flexibly combined with a variety of higher-level reasoning modules or complex memory rules. The design is inspired by research in motion planning, control, and sensing for autonomous mobile robots. We apply this framework to the problem of quickly synthesizing from navigation goals the collision-free motions for animated human figures in changing virtual environments. We combine a low-level path planner a path-following controller and cyclic motion capture data to generate the underlying animation. Graphics rendering hardware is used to simulate the visual perception of a character, providing a feedback loop to the overall navigation strategy. The synthetic vision and memory update rules can handle dynamic environments where objects appear disappear or move around unpredictably The resulting model is suitable for a variety of real-time applications involving autonomous animated characters.

Impedance-type kinesthetic haptic displays aim to render arbitrary desired dynamics to a human operator using force feedback. To render realistic virtual environments, the difference between desired and rendered dynamics must be small. In this paper, we analyze the closed-loop dynamics of haptic displays for three common virtual environments: a spring, a damper, and a spring-damper, including the effects of time delay and low-pass filtering. Using a linear model, we identify important parameters for the rendered dynamics in terms of effective impedances, a conceptual tool that decomposes the displays closed-loop impedance into components with physical analogs. Our results establish bandwidth limits for rendering effective stiffness and damping. The effective stiffness bandwidth is limited by the virtual stiffness and device mass, and the effective damping bandwidth is limited by the cut-off frequency of the low-pass filter which filters the device velocity estimate. We show that a general system impedance can be characterized by a mass, damper, and spring optimally by the solution to a convex optimization problem, and we present a quantitative metric, the Average Distortion Error (ADE), to describe the fidelity of this model. Time delay has no significant effect on characterized stiffness, and reduces characterized damping by the product of virtual stiffness and total time delay. Reducing the low-pass filter cut-off frequency reduces the characterized damping. Experimental data gathered with a Phantom Premium 1.5 validates the theoretical analysis. We also conducted human user experiments to investigate the effects of time delay and low-pass filtering on perceived stiffness and damping. Similar to the characterized dynamics results, we observed no significant effect of time delay on perceived stiffness, and increasing time delay resulted in reduced perceived damping. Lower filter cut-off frequencies resulted in lower perceived damping. This work informs haptic display design by presenting how closed-loop behavior changes with key parameters.

Process planning incorporating material removal is a critical phase in the realization of a product between design and manufacture where all the decisions are made and documented with regard to how the product is going to be manufactured. Any decisions at this point can have a major impact on final cost and quality. While computer-aided process planning (CAPP) systems are widely available, evidence suggests that they are unable to meet users' expectations sufficiently as indicated by their low commercial uptake. This research investigated the reasons why and defined a systematic approach for the cross platform evaluation of process planning systems with regard to their usability. A haptic-based virtual reality process planning was benchmarked against traditional process planning, enabling the development of a reproducible usability evaluation for CAPP systems. A method inspired from assessing game immersion was implemented to determine the users' subjective perceptions of the two systems whilst objective data was gathered to capture unbiased comparative information and quantify any differences. A SWOT analysis was also carried out in order to obtain a deeper understanding of any issues found. Results showed that the haptic system was perceived to provide a more user friendly and intuitive interface compared to traditional process planning, particularly for novice process planners. Additionally, all users exhibited less cognitive load overall when using haptics.

When designing virtual embodiment studies, one of the key choices is the nature of the experimental factors, either between-subjects or within-subjects. However, it is well known that each design has advantages and disadvantages in terms of statistical power, sample size requirements and confounding factors. This paper reports a within-subjects experiment with 92 participants comparing self-reported embodiment scores under a visuomotor task with two conditions: synchronous motions and asynchronous motions with a latency of 300 ms. With the gathered data, using a Monte-Carlo method, we created numerous simulations of within- and between-subjects experiments by selecting subsets of the data. In particular, we explored the impact of the number of participants on the replicability of the results from the 92 within-subjects experiment. For the between-subjects simulations, only the first condition for each user was considered to create the simulations. The results showed that while the replicability of the results increased as the number of participants increased for the within-subjects simulations, no matter the number of participants, between-subjects simulations were not able to replicate the initial results. We discuss the potential reasons that could have led to this surprising result and potential methodological practices to mitigate them.

With the progression of VR tech, virtual interactive environments are becoming increasingly realistic and controllable. Research has substantiated the influence of VR environmental variables on user experience and engagement. Concurrently, real-time user status monitoring advancements have unlocked dynamic adjustments to VR environments through user interaction with real-time status and feedback, increasing researchers' focus on enhancing user experience and engagement by adjusting VR environmental variables. This paper introduces an interactive paradigm for VR environments called the Dynamic Scene Adjustment (DSA) mechanism, which seeks to modify the VR environmental variables in real-time according to the user's status and performance to enhance user engagement and experience. We selected the perspective of the impact of visual environment variables on player status, embedding the DSA mechanism into a music VR game with brain-computer interaction for specific VR tasks. Experimental findings affirm that incorporating the DSA mechanism into the VR game enhances the user's engagement and performance, thereby strongly validating the rationality of the proposed DSA approach. This work can assist researchers think about dynamic regulation in VR environments from a new perspective and will shed light on the design of VR healing, VR education, VR games, and other fields.

In current virtual reality settings for motor skill training, only visual information is usually provided regarding the virtual objects the trainee interacts with. However, information gathered through cutaneous (tactile feedback) and muscle mechanoreceptors (kinesthetic feedback) regarding, e.g., object shape, is crucial to successfully interact with those objects. To provide this essential information, previous haptic interfaces have targeted to render either tactile or kinesthetic feedback while the effectiveness of multimodal tactile and kinesthetic feedback on the perception of the characteristics of virtual objects still remains largely unexplored. Here, we present the results from an experiment we conducted with sixteen participants to evaluate the effectiveness of multimodal tactile and kinesthetic feedback on shape perception. Using a within-subject design, participants were asked to reproduce virtual shapes after exploring them without visual feedback and with either congruent tactile and kinesthetic feedback or with only kinesthetic feedback. Tactile feedback was provided with a cable-driven platform mounted on the fingertip, while kinesthetic feedback was provided using a haptic glove. To measure the participants' ability to perceive and reproduce the rendered shapes, we measured the time participants spent exploring and reproducing the shapes and the error between the rendered and reproduced shapes after exploration. Furthermore, we assessed the participants' workload and motivation using well-established questionnaires. We found that concurrent tactile and kinesthetic feedback during shape exploration resulted in lower reproduction errors and longer reproduction times. The longer reproduction times for the combined condition may indicate that participants could learn the shapes better and, thus, were more careful when reproducing them. We did not find differences between conditions in the time spent exploring the shapes or the participants' workload and motivation. The lack of differences in workload between conditions could be attributed to the reported minimal-to-intermediate workload levels, suggesting that there was little room to further reduce the workload. Our work highlights the potential advantages of multimodal congruent tactile and kinesthetic feedback when interacting with tangible virtual objects with applications in virtual simulators for hands-on training applications.

Recent years have seen the proliferation of VR-based dental simulators using a wide variety of different VR configurations. Differences in technologies and setups used result in important differences in degree of realism. These include 3D stereoscopic rendering and visual alignment of the user's hands with the virtual tools. While each new dental simulator typically is associated with some form of evaluation study, only few comparative studies have been carried out to determine the benefits of various simulation aspects. In this paper, we seek to determine the impact of 3D stereoscopic rendering and of hand-tool alignment on the teaching effectiveness of a VR dental simulator. We developed a bimanual simulator using an HMD and two haptic devices that provides an immersive environment with both 3D stereoscopic rendering and hand-tool alignment. We then systematically and independently controlled for each of the two aspects of the simulation. We trained four groups of students in root canal access opening using the simulator and measured the learning gains by doing pre- and post-testing using realistic plastic teeth. We found that hand-tool alignment has a positive impact on learning gains, while stereoscopic 3D does not. The effect of stereoscopic 3D is surprising and demands further research in settings with small target objects. The results of our study provide valuable information for the future design of dental simulators, as well as simulators for other high-precision psycho-motor tasks.

As part of the 1st Edition of Individual Programs of Study conducted in the form of Project Based Learning, an interdisciplinary team composed of students and their guardians from two faculties of the Silesian University of Technology: Faculty of Architecture and Faculty of Automatic Control, Electronics and Computer Science was created. The aim of the team was to create an application for VR goggles that would require from the user to perform everyday activities in a model apartment for an elderly person. Perception of space in the application is limited as a result of a cummulation of eye dysfunctions/illnesses characteristic of old age. In the model environment the tester is moving around in a wheelchair. The name of the project: "Lens 60+" refers to the activities undertaken by Fundacja Laboratorium Architektury 60+ (LAB60+) /60+ Architecture Laboratory Foundation/ with the aim to raise social awareness of the problems that elderly people face in private and public spaces, resulting from the existing architectural solutions which do not take into account their needs and limitations.

Simulation fidelity is characterized as the extent to which a Virtual Environment (VE) and relevant interactions with it are indistinguishable from a user's interaction with a real environment. The growing number of VE training applications which target a high level of simulation fidelity, mainly for transfer of training in the real world, have made it crucial to examine the manner in which these particular implementations and designs are evaluated. The methodology presented in this study focuses on real versus simulated virtual worlds, comparing participants' level of presence, task performance, and cognition state employed to complete a memory task. A 15-minute seminar was presented in four different conditions including real, 3D desktop, 3D Head Mounted Display (HMD) and Audio-only (between-subjects design). Four independent groups of 18 participants took part in the experiment, which investigated the effects of levels of immersion on participants' memory recall and memory awareness state (relevant to episodic and semantic memory types) as well as on their perception of the experimental space and sense of presence for every condition. The level of reported presence was not positively associated with accurate memory recall in all conditions, although the scores for both presence and seminar memory recall in the "real" condition were statistically higher. Memory awareness states' analysis gave a invaluable insight into "how" participants remembered both communicated information and space, as opposed to "what," most interestingly across specific conditions where results for presence and accurate memory recall were not proven to be significant.

The Player and Avatar attachment help to motivate a student to strengthen their engagement in gameplay. The different types of avatar designs deployed in a game have an impact on students' engagements. The avatars are designed with different roles, wherein each role offers varying motivational effects on students' engagement. Several research in human and computer interaction have assessed user engagement and user attention in a computer or system application as well as in gameplay. Among the usual approaches to assess user engagement are using questionnaire and eye-tracking. Investigating the possible use of these approaches in determining the player and avatar attachment, particularly the attachment that associated with the various avatar designs and their effect on students' engagement are inconclusive and remains untapped. Essentially, studying students' engagement and attention perception while learning enriches one's comprehension about engagement in the education segment. As such, this study proposes a new model of player and avatar attachment based on the students' engagement and focus attention on the gameplay of digital educational games (DEGs). The model is developed follows a stepwise approach consisting component identification, relationship of the components, model development, and model validation. Several components were scrutinized, summarized, and developed into the model proposed in this study. A significant attachment can determine the avatar design that may influence a student's engagement in gameplay. Hence, this study offers several constructive recommendations for future avatars in game design for education purpose, which may validate the user's engagement based on his or her focus attention.

With the development of information technology, many well-known art museums and galleries have adopted metaverse exhibitions for online display and dissemination of art information, building sustainable ways to participate in and experience art. Users can access the metaverse exhibition platform through the internet and enjoy classic artworks in the virtual space, which has gained many forms of artistic perception and improved physical and mental health. Currently, the factors affecting user use intentions in existing metaverse exhibition studies still need to be clarified and need to be studied in depth. This paper explores the relationship between users' entertainment experience, educational experience, presence, affective responses, and use intention through a survey of 536 users who had experienced a metaverse exhibition. The research results show that users' use intentions are influenced by entertainment experiences and educational experiences. Presence mediates between entertainment experiences and educational experiences on use intention. Affective responses play a moderating role between the educational experience and use intention. This study provides a relevant theoretical basis for sustainable urban and socio-economic development from a digital perspective. At the same time, this study enables the metaverse exhibition platform to design and create valuable and healthy artistic content with higher quality. The emotional state of the user's experience was better attended to so that mental health was enhanced and managed. Furthermore, it also provided a guidance program for the development of educational experience and economic sustainability of the exhibition industry.

In this work we present an advanced thermal control for a miniaturized fingertip haptic device: the aim is to achieve high fidelity in following temperature references, in order to accurately simulate contact with different materials. The thermal module is designed to be mounted in a wearable device called Haptic Thimble, which is able to render surface orientation and fast contact transition through a linear electromagnetic actuator. The thermal module is expected to simulate the relatively fast thermal transients occurring at the contact with virtual materials. By means of a thin plate design of the device, and of a specific control implementation presented in this paper, we were able to achieve fast and accurate temperature tracking of temperature transients simulating different real materials. The control implementation and algorithm, making use of an inner current control loop and of an asymmetric temperature control loop is presented in this work and experimentally validated, also in presence of disturbance of the user's fingerpad. Particularly good results (comparable to non-portable, bulky thermal stages) have been obtained in terms of dynamics and accuracy of the temperature tracking (1 Hz bandpass frequency). Moreover, a perception experiment with seven subjects involving discrimination of contact with different virtual materials (copper, glass, urethane) has been conducted. The aim of the experiment was to assess the capability of the fully wearable device to properly render thermal transients when virtual contact occurs.

Haptic technology (sense of touch) along with 3D-virtual reality (VR) graphics, creating lifelike training simulations, was used to develop a dental training simulator system (PerioSim (c)). This preliminary study was designed to evaluate whether faculty considered Periosim realistic and useful for training and evaluating basic procedural skills of students. The haptic device employed was a PHANToM(TM) and the simulator a Dell Xeon 530 workstation with 3D, VR oral models and instruments viewed on a stereoscopic monitor. An onscreen VR periodontal probe or explorer was manipulated by operating the PHANTOM for sensing lifelike contact and interactions with the teeth and gingiva. Thirty experienced clinical dental and dental hygiene faculty judged the realism of the system. A PowerPoint presentation on one screen provided instructions for the simulator use with the 3D. VR simulator on a second stereoscopic monitor viewed with 3D goggles. Faculty/practitioners found the images very realistic for teeth and instruments, but less so for gingiva. Tactile sensation was realistic for teeth but not so for gingiva. The onscreen instructions were very useful with high potential for teaching. Faculty members anticipated incorporating this device into teaching and were enthusiastic about its potential for evaluating students' basic procedural skills. This study suggests that the preliminary "evidence-of-concept" was successful and Periosim may aid students in developing necessary dental tactile skills. Z8 2

Ultrasound (US) imaging offers advantages over other imaging modalities and has become the most widespread modality for many diagnostic and interventional procedures. However, traditional 2D US requires a long training period, especially to learn how to manipulate the probe. A hybrid interactive system based on mixed reality was designed, implemented and tested for hand-eye coordination training in diagnostic and interventional US. A hybrid simulator was developed integrating a physical US phantom and a software application with a 3D virtual scene. In this scene, a 3D model of the probe with its relative scan plane is coherently displayed with a 3D representation of the phantom internal structures. An evaluation study of the diagnostic module was performed by recruiting thirty-six novices and four experts. The performances of the hybrid (HG) versus physical (PG) simulator were compared. After the training session, each novice was required to visualize a particular target structure. The four experts completed a 5-point Likert scale questionnaire. Seventy-eight percentage of the HG novices successfully visualized the target structure, whereas only 45 % of the PG reached this goal. The mean scores from the questionnaires were 5.00 for usefulness, 4.25 for ease of use, 4.75 for 3D perception, and 3.25 for phantom realism. The hybrid US training simulator provides ease of use and is effective as a hand-eye coordination teaching tool. Mixed reality can improve US probe manipulation training. Z8 0

Understanding the extent to which, and conditions under which, scene detail affects spatial perception accuracy can inform the responsible use of sketch-like rendering styles in applications such as immersive architectural design walkthroughs using 3D concept drawings. This paper reports the results of an experiment that provides important new insight into this question using a custom-built, portable video-see-through (VST) conversion of an optical-see-through head-mounted display (HMD). Participants made egocentric distance judgments by blind walking to the perceived location of a real physical target in a real-world outdoor environment under three different conditions of HMD-mediated scene detail reduction: full detail (raw camera view), partial detail (Sobel-filtered camera view), and no detail (complete background subtraction), and in a control condition of unmediated real world viewing through the same HMD. Despite the significant differences in participants' ratings of visual and experiential realism between the three different video-see-through rendering conditions, we found no significant difference in the distances walked between these conditions. Consistent with prior findings, participants underestimated distances to a significantly greater extent in each of the three VST conditions than in the real world condition. The lack of any clear penalty to task performance accuracy not only from the removal of scene detail, but also from the removal of all contextual cues to the target location, suggests that participants may be relying nearly exclusively on context-independent information such as angular declination when performing the blind-walking task. This observation highlights the limitations in using blind walking to the perceived location of a target on the ground to make inferences about people's understanding of the 3D space of the virtual environment surrounding the target. For applications like immersive architectural design, where we seek to verify the equivalence of the 3D spatial understanding derived from virtual immersion and real world experience, additional measures of spatial understanding should be considered.

This study provides a structured literature review of the recent COllaborative roBOT (COBOT) applications in industrial and service contexts. Several papers and research studies were selected and analyzed, observing the collaborative robot interactions, the control technologies and the market impact. This review focuses on stationary COBOTs that may guarantee flexible applications, resource efficiency, and worker safety from a fixed location. COBOTs offer new opportunities to develop and integrate control techniques, environmental recognition of time-variant object location, and user-friendly programming to interact safely with humans. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning systems enable and boost the COBOT's ability to perceive its surroundings. A deep analysis of different applications of COBOTs and their properties, from industrial assembly, material handling, service personal assistance, security and inspection, Medicare, and supernumerary tasks, was carried out. Among the observations, the analysis outlined the importance and the dependencies of the control interfaces, the intention recognition, the programming techniques, and virtual reality solutions. A market analysis of 195 models was developed, focusing on the physical characteristics and key features to demonstrate the relevance and growing interest in this field, highlighting the potential of COBOT adoption based on (i) degrees of freedom, (ii) reach and payload, (iii) accuracy, and (iv) energy consumption vs. tool center point velocity. Finally, a discussion on the advantages and limits is summarized, considering anthropomorphic robot applications for further investigations.

The digitalization of industry is targeting at the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in manufacturing systems, for delivering intelligent machinery. Although AI seems a long-term target, similar enabling technologies such as artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been introduced. Despite that ANNs are inspired by the human brain's functioning, understanding how they work and training them is a challenging task, requiring engineers with advanced math and coding skills. On the contrary, augmented reality (AR) is a cutting-edge digital technology, enabling the registration of 3D content on the physical environment, thus enhancing user's perception in a growing variety of scientific fields. Therefore, this research work aims at the design and development of an AR-based framework that facilitates the conceptualization of an ANN through AR, assists engineers train efficient ANN and moreover share knowledge through suitable communication channels. Finally, the framework can handle datasets with the use of cloud services.

Haptic interactions play an essential role in education to enhance learning efficiency; however, haptic information for virtual educational content remains lacking. This article proposes a planar cable-driven haptic interface with movable bases that can display isotropic force feedback with maximum workspace extension on a commercial screen display. A generalized kinematic and static analysis of the cable-driven mechanism is derived by considering movable pulleys. Based on the analyses, a system including movable bases is designed and controlled to maximize the workspace subject to isotropic force exertion for the target screen area. The proposed system is evaluated experimentally as a haptic interface represented by the workspace, isotropic force-feedback range, bandwidth, Z-width, and user experiment. The results indicate that the proposed system can maximize workspace to the target rectangular area and exert isotropic force up to 94.0% of the theoretical computed one within the workspace.

Background: Continuous performance tasks (CPTs) embedded in a virtual reality (VR) classroom environment have been shown to be a sensitive and user-friendly assessment tool to detect cognitive deficits related to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).The aim of the current study was to compare the performance of children with ADHD on a VR-CPT while on and off treatment with methylphenidate (MPH) and to compare the VR-CPT to a currently used CPT Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA). Methods: Twenty-seven children with ADHD underwent the VR-CPT, the same CPT without VR (no VR-CPT), and the TOVA, 1 hour after the ingestion of either placebo or 0.3 mg/kg MPH, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. Immediately following CPT, subjects described their subjective experiences on the Short Feedback Questionnaire. Results: MPH reduced omission errors to a greater extent on the VR-CPT compared to the no VR-CPT and the TOVA, and decreased other CPT measures on all types of CPT to a similar degree. Children rated the VR-CPT as more enjoyable compared to the other types of CPT Conclusions: It is concluded that the VR-CPT is a sensitive and user-friendly assessment tool in measuring the response to MPH in children with ADHD. CNS Spectr. 2010;15(2):125-130

Excessive speed is one of the primary safety hazards facing highway users. Too often, operating speeds exceed design speeds, and speed limit postings are generally ignored by drivers. There is renewed interest in designing roadways that encourage drivers to operate at or below design speeds. There is not, however, a reliable body of concomitant knowledge regarding what combinations of design properties should be used to accomplish this goal. To date, only limited interrelationships have been explored, but these explorations have not begun to approach evaluations of the complexity of the design environment, which encompasses combinations of design properties such as lane width, shoulder width, clear zone, horizontal and vertical curvatures, and even the type and intensity of vegetation along the corridor. This research integrates the use of virtual reality simulations of various highway sample designs. These sessions can simultaneously accommodate significant numbers of subjects and gather their feedback through electronic audience response systems. The response feedback is modeled through the use of a fuzzy set system that allows designers to inspect the interrelationships of many different design parameters. Such modeling systems are particularly well suited to nonlinear, data-sparse applications such as this. This research reports on a pilot data modeling effort, in which the discomfort responses of 15 participants to 22 different virtual roadway design combinations were gathered in less than 30 min. These data were sufficient for use for modeling the way in which more than 400 possible roadway design combinations would affect the participants' perceptions of speed and safety.

Recently, there has been a great increase in interest in using three dimensional stereoscopic displays to provide viewers with realistic 3D views of objects of interest, Some applications where stereoscopic displays are becoming popular include medical visualization, visualization of meteorological data, and various virtual reality applications. To quantify the effectiveness of stereoscopic systems over conventional monoscopic systems, well-designed experiments and data analysis methods are necessary. This task requires the combined effort of application scientists and experts in experimental design, Lack of interdisciplinary collaboration is a primary weakness of many stereoscopic display studies, resulting in the neglect of many important but subtle experimental issues, In this paper, we discuss specific issues that arise in the design of studies to determine the effectiveness of digital stereo imagery, Issues concerning statistical analysis of the experimental data are also discussed, References to related literature from engineering, computer graphics, and psychophysics are given, The issues developed herein provide a guideline for the design of studies to compare observer performance when using different imaging modalities.

In this work we propose the combination of large interactive displays with personal head-mounted Augmented Reality (AR) for information visualization to facilitate data exploration and analysis. Even though large displays provide more display space, they are challenging with regard to perception, effective multi-user support, and managing data density and complexity. To address these issues and illustrate our proposed setup, we contribute an extensive design space comprising first, the spatial alignment of display, visualizations, and objects in AR space. Next, we discuss which parts of a visualization can be augmented. Finally, we analyze how AR can be used to display personal views in order to show additional information and to minimize the mutual disturbance of data analysts. Based on this conceptual foundation, we present a number of exemplary techniques for extending visualizations with AR and discuss their relation to our design space. We further describe how these techniques address typical visualization problems that we have identified during our literature research. To examine our concepts, we introduce a generic AR visualization framework as well as a prototype implementing several example techniques. In order to demonstrate their potential, we further present a use case walkthrough in which we analyze a movie data set. From these experiences, we conclude that the contributed techniques can be useful in exploring and understanding multivariate data. We are convinced that the extension of large displays with AR for information visualization has a great potential for data analysis and sense-making.

Research puts forward perception-based cognitive workload evaluation methods to help VR developers and users measuring their workload when playing with a VR application. Approaches to measure workload based on biosensors have progressed significantly, while evaluation based on subjective methods still rely on standard questionnaires such as the NASA-TLX table, the Subjective Workload Assessment Technique and the Modified Cooper Harper scale. The pre-defined questions enable operators to carry out experiments and analyse the data more easily than with biofeedback. However, the subjective evaluation process can bias the results because of unperceived internal changes and unknown factors among users. It is therefore necessary to have a method to handle and analyse this uncertainty. We propose to use the Technique for Order Performance by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) model to analyse the NASA-TLX table for measuring the overall user workload instead of using the classical weighted sum method. To show the advantage of the TOPSIS approach, we performed a user experiment to validate the approach and its application to VR, considering factors including the VR platform and the scenario density. Three different weighting methods, including the fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) from fuzzy logic, the classical weighting based on pairwise comparison and the uniform weighting method, were tested to see the applicability of the TOPSIS model. The results from TOPSIS were consistent with those from other evaluation methods; a significant reduction in the coefficient of variation (CV) was observed when using the TOPSIS model to analyse the NASA-TLX scores, indicating an enhanced precision of the workload evaluation by the TOPSIS method. Our work has a potential application for VR designers and experimenters to compare cognitive workload among conditions and to optimize the settings.

PurposeThe Metaverse is rapidly reshaping the understanding of tourism, yet the public perception of this new domain remains largely uncharted empirically. This paper aims to build on the technology acceptance model (TAM) and diffusion of innovations theory (DIT) to fill this gap, offering crucial insights that could inform scholars and practitioners in both the tourism and technology sectors.Design/methodology/approachUsing a big-data approach, the authors applied machine learning to scrape comments made by social media users on recent popular posts or videos related to tourism in the Metaverse from three prominent social media platforms. The cleaning process narrowed down 15,461 comments to 2,650, which were then analysed using thematic, emotion and sentiment analysis techniques.FindingsThe thematic analysis revealed that virtual tourism evokes a complex range of public beliefs. While many express awe and excitement toward its immersive capabilities, others remain sceptical about authenticity compared to physical travel. Additional themes show people draw comparisons to real-world tourism, discuss technology's role and note educational value and novelty. However, some comments raise concerns about potential societal harms, exploitation and mental health impacts. Sentiment analysis found over half of the comments positive, though some were negative. Emotion analysis showed contentment, happiness and excitement as most frequent, though sadness, worry and loneliness also featured. Overall, perceptions of Metaverse tourism encompass enthusiasm yet substantial ambivalence.Originality/valueTo the best of the authors' knowledge, this study is one of the first to comprehensively analyse public discussions on Metaverse tourism. It takes TAM and Rogers's DIT a step further and provides fresh insights into how these theories can be employed in the emerging field of Metaverse tourism. The themes revealed new conceptual insights into multidimensional factors shaping public beliefs about Metaverse tourism and thus informing scholarly research on virtual interaction and technology acceptance regarding Metaverse tourism. In addition, the results can help tourism providers, platforms and marketers address salient public beliefs and sentiments/attitudes in developing marketing offerings, experiences and communications. Over time, this analysis methodology can be used to track the evolving public perceptions of Metaverse tourism.

Purpose The purpose of the study is to investigate the effects of interactivity and vividness on perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment and their consequent impacts on consumer behavioral responses in a retail furniture VR store context. Considering the lack of VR empirical research, the indirect effect of interactivity and vividness on perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment through telepresence and the moderating effect of consumer previous experience with VR are also included. Design/methodology/approach A commercial IKEA VR store was chosen for the study. Head-mounted display (HMD) VR headsets were employed for the VR shopping experience. The study was conducted at a laboratory at a large university in the southeastern United States. A total of 146 college students participated in the study. Findings Vividness had significant positive effects on perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment, which in turn influenced attitude towards VR and behavioral intentions. Interactivity did not have positive impacts on perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment. However, it indirectly affected perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment through telepresence. The findings also proved the moderating effect of consumer previous VR experience between interactivity and perceived usefulness and between interactivity and perceived enjoyment. The relationship between attitude and behavioral intentions was also positive. Originality/value Notwithstanding the benefits of VR in relation to its utilitarian, hedonic, and behavioral values, little is known about consumers' responses towards the usage of VR as a shopping tool. The present study can be considered as a starting point in understanding the usefulness of VR from consumer and managerial perspectives. The findings of VR indicated in the study will help practitioners understand the urgency of adopting VR in a retail setting.

Maze Suite is a complete set of tools that enables researchers to perform spatial and navigational behavioral experiments within interactive, easy-to-create, and extendable (e.g., multiple rooms) 3-D virtual environments. Maze Suite can be used to design and edit adapted 3-D environments, as well as to track subjects' behavioral performance. Maze Suite consists of three main applications: an editing program for constructing maze environments (MazeMaker), a visualization/rendering module (MazeWalker), and an analysis and mapping tool (MazeViewer). Each of these tools is run and used from a graphical user interface, thus making editing, execution, and analysis user friendly. MazeMaker is a NET architecture application that can easily be used to create new 3-D environments and to edit objects (e.g., geometric shapes, pictures, landscapes, etc.) or add them to the environment effortlessly. In addition, Maze Suite has the capability of sending signal-out pulses to physiological recording devices, using standard computer ports. Maze Suite, with all three applications, is a unique and complete toolset for researchers who want to easily and rapidly deploy interactive 3-D environments.

Observed influences of system response delay in spoken human-machine dialogues are rather ambiguous and mainly focus on perceived system quality. Studies that systematically inspect effects on cognitive performance are still lacking, and effects of individual characteristics are also often neglected. Building on benefits of cognitive training for decelerating cognitive decline, this Wizard-of-Oz study addresses both issues by testing 62 elderly participants in a dialogue-based memory training with a virtual agent. Participants acquired the method of loci with fading instructional guidance and applied it afterward to memorizing and recalling lists of German nouns. System response delays were randomly assigned, and training performance was included as potential mediator. Participants' age, gender, and subscales of affinity for technology (enthusiasm, competence, positive and negative perception of technology) were inspected as potential moderators. The results indicated positive effects on recall performance with higher training performance, female gender, and less negative perception of technology. Additionally, memory retention and facets of affinity for technology moderated increasing system response delays. Participants also provided higher ratings in perceived system quality with higher enthusiasm for technology but reported increasing frustration with a more positive perception of technology. Potential explanations and implications for the design of spoken dialogue systems are discussed.

Amid the increasing interest in applying augmented reality (AR) in educational settings, this study explores the design and enactment of an AR-infused robot system to enhance children's satisfaction and sensory engagement with dramatic play activities. In particular, we conducted an exploratory study to empirically examine children's perceptions toward the computer- and robot-mediated AR systems designed to make dramatic play activities interactive and participatory. A multi-disciplinary expert group consisting of early childhood education experts, preschool teachers, AR specialists, and robot engineers collaborated to develop a learning scenario and technological systems for dramatic play. The experiment was conducted in a kindergarten setting in Korea, with 81 children (aged 5-6 years old). The participants were placed either in the computer-mediated AR condition (n = 40) or the robot-mediated AR condition (n = 41). We administered an instrument to measure children's perceived levels of the following variables: (a) satisfaction (i.e., interest in dramatic play & user-friendliness), (b) sensory immersion (i.e., self-engagement, environment-engagement & interaction-engagement), and (c) media recognition (i.e., collaboration with media, media function & empathy with media). Data analysis indicates that children in the robot-mediated condition showed significantly higher perceptions than those in the computer-mediated condition regarding the following aspects: interest in dramatic play (satisfaction), interactive engagement (sensory immersion), and empathy with media (media recognition). Furthermore, it was found that the younger-aged children and girls, in particular, perceived AR-infused dramatic play more positively than the older-aged children and boys, respectively. The contribution of this study is to provide empirical evidence about the affordances of robots and AR-based learning systems for young children. This remains a relatively unexplored area of research in the field of learning technologies. Implications of the current study and future research directions are also discussed.

Gravity plays a role in many different levels of human motor behavior. It dictates the laws of motion of our body and limbs, as well as of the objects in the external world with which we wish to interact. The dynamic interaction of our body with the world is molded within gravity's constraints. The role played by gravity in the perception of visual stimuli and the elaboration of human movement is an active research theme in the field of Neurophysiology. Conditions of microgravity, coupled with techniques from the world of virtual reality, provide a unique opportunity to address these questions concerning the function of the human sensorimotor system [1]. The ability to measure movements of the head and to update in real time the visual scene presented to the subject based on these measurements is a key element in producing a realistic virtual environment. A variety of head-tracking hardware exists on the market today [2-4], but none seem particularly well suited to the constraints of working with a space station environment. Nor can any of the existing commercial systems meet the more stringent requirements for physiological experimentation (high accuracy, high resolution, low jitter, low lag) in a wireless configuration. To this end, we have developed and tested a hybrid opto-inertial 6 degree-of-freedom tracker based on existing inertial technology [5-8]. To confirm that the inertial components and algorithms will function properly, this system was tested in the microgravity conditions of parabolic flight. Here we present the design goals of this tracker, the system configuration and the results of Og and 1 g testing. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

This article proposes HaptoMapping, a projection-based visuo-haptic augmented reality (VHAR) system, that can render visual and haptic content independently and present consistent visuo-haptic sensations on physical surfaces. HaptoMapping controls wearable haptic displays by embedded control signals that are imperceptible to the user in projected images using a pixel-level visible light communication technique. The prototype system is comprised of a high-speed projector and three types of haptic devices-finger worn, stylus, and arm mounted. The finger-worn and stylus devices present vibrotactile sensations to a user's fingertips. The arm-mounted device presents stroking sensations on a user's forearm using arrayed actuators with a synchronized hand projection mapping. We identified that the developed system's maximum latency of haptic from visual sensations was 93.4 ms. We conducted user studies on the latency perception of our VHAR system. The results revealed that the developed haptic devices can present haptic sensations without user-perceivable latencies, and the visual-haptic latency tolerance of our VHAR system was 100, 159, 500 ms for the finger-worn, stylus, and arm-mounted devices, respectively. Another user study with the arm-mounted device discovered that the visuo-haptic stroking system maintained both continuity and pleasantness when the spacing between each substrate was relatively sparse, such as 20 mm, and significantly improved both the continuity and pleasantness at 80 and 150 mm/s when compared to the haptic only stroking system. Lastly, we introduced four potential applications in daily scenes. Our system methodology allows for a wide range of VHAR application design without concern for latency and misalignment effects.

This paper describes an interaction system called the DextroBeam designed for manipulating objects in 3D space while looking at a 3D stereoscopic display located in front of the user. Three-dimensional interaction is two-handed and is achieved by means of a stylus with a single button or switch. We have been planning several neurosurgical cases with the DextroBeam, including the separation of Nepalese Siamese twins in April 200 1, and have conducted a course on surgery of the Temporal Bone (as part of the 9th ASEAN ORL Head and Neck Congress in Singapore, March 2001).

The sixth generation mobile network (6G) is evolving to provide ubiquitous connections, multidimensional perception, native intelligence, global coverage, etc., which poses intense demands for network design to tackle the highly dynamic context and diverse service requirements. Digital Twin (DT) is envisioned as an efficient method for designing 6G that migrates the behaviors of physical nodes to the virtual space. However, in the high-dynamic 6G network, there still exist challenges in achieving accuracy and flexibility when constructing DT. In this article, we propose a Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI)-driven mobile network digital twin paradigm, where the GAI is utilized as a key enabler to generate DT data. Specifically, GAI is capable of implicitly learning the complex distribution of network data, allowing it to sample from the distribution and obtain high-fidelity data. In addition, the construction of DT is closely related to various types of data, such as environmental, user, and service data. GAI can utilize these data as conditions to control the generation process under different scenarios, thereby enhancing flexibility. In practice, we develop a network digital twin prototype system to accurately model the behaviors of mobile network elements (i.e ., mobile users, base stations, and wireless environments) and to evaluate network performance. Evaluation results demonstrate that the proposed prototype system can generate high-fidelity DT data and provide practical network optimization solutions. Z8 0

Internet-based interactive multimedia technologies enable online firms to employ a variety of formats to present and promote their products: They can use pictures, videos, and sounds to depict products, as well as give consumers the opportunity to try out products virtually. Despite the several previous endeavors that studied the effects of different product presentation formats, the functional mechanisms underlying these presentation methods have not been investigated in a comprehensive way. This paper investigates a model showing how these functional mechanisms (namely, vividness and interactivity) influence consumers' intentions to return to a website and their intentions to purchase products. A study conducted to test this model has largely confirmed our expectations: (1) both vividness and interactivity of product presentations are the primary design features that influence the efficacy of the presentations; (2) consumers' perceptions of the diagnosticity of websites, their perceptions of the compatibility between online shopping and physical shopping, and their shopping enjoyment derived from a particular online shopping experience jointly influence consumers' attitudes toward shopping at a website; and (3) both consumers' attitudes toward products and their attitudes toward shopping at a website contribute to their intentions to purchase the products displayed on the website.

With the haptic technology continuously enlarging the eHealth Industry Internet of Things (IIoT) ecosystem, haptic perception service which requires effective haptic signal reconstruction for immersive experience has become an indispensable function. However, the majority of existing haptic signal reconstruction methods are generally inefficient because of undergoing extremely complex operations or inefficient feature representations. To resolve this dilemma, this article proposes a long short-term memory-based force reconstruction network (LSTM-FRN) by designing a novel sparse attention module for low-latency reconstruction and a novel metric learning-based constraint for high-precision reconstruction, yielding an excellent tradeoff between the computational complexity and feature representation. To train our network, we construct a large-scale data set of synchronous needle motion signals and haptic signals in acupuncture needle insertion. Finally, we build an interactive needle insertion training system (HapAR-NITS) by integrating augmented reality (AR), the LSTM-FRN-based haptic reconstruction as well as a skill assessment subsystem. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed multiple technologies enable our HapAR-NITS to achieve satisfying immersive experience and manipulation effects.

This paper aims to evaluate text, image and audio feedback regarding usability, exercise correction and user preferences when using Augmented Reality (AR) to guide movements execution in rehabilitation applications. For that, this study used an AR rehabilitation tool, named ARkanoidAR, which attempts to correct the wrong movement performed by a user through text, image and audio feedback, while he/she is playing a game controlled based on the therapy protocol defined by a physiotherapist for that particular user. The ARkanoidAR uses a Kinect sensor to track the human body and its movements, and it is completely configurable according to patient therapy needs. To evaluate feedback effects individually, this study collected quantitative data to measure success rate, which represents the amount of time that the user executed the movements correctly when using the application with each feedback individually activated. Experiments were composed of five phases: control, text, image, audio and control. The feedback sequence was randomized before the tests in order to avoid bias. Quantitative results show that users understood the instructions for performing the movements correctly since the success rate along time increased. Tests also included observation and qualitative analysis through questionnaires and a semi structured interview to evaluate the usability perception of users. The qualitative data helped to detect different types of problems for each feedback based on users' answers. This study was carried out with healthy people, and did not predict the particularities and limitations of physiotherapy patients. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Excessive pain during medical procedures performed in unanesthetized patients is frequently reported, but can be reduced with virtual reality (VR) distraction. Increasing the person's illusion of going into the virtual world may increase how effectively VR distracts pain. Healthy volunteers aged 18-20 years participated in a double-blind between-groups design. Each subject received a brief baseline thermal pain stimulus, and the same stimulus again minutes later with either a Low Tech or a High Tech VR distraction. Each subject provided subjective 0-10 ratings of cognitive, sensory and affective components of pain, and rated their illusion of going inside the virtual world. Subjects in the High Tech VR group reported a stronger illusion of going into the virtual world (VR presence) than subjects in the Low Tech VR group, (4.2 vs. 2.5, respectively, P = 0.009) and more pain reduction (reduction of worst pain is 3.1 for High Tech VR vs. 0.7 for Low Tech VR, P < 0.001). Across groups, the amount of pain reduction was positively and significantly correlated with VR presence levels reported by subjects (r = 0.48 for 'worst pain', P < 0.005). (C) 2004 International Association for the Study of Pain. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Planning surgical interventions is a complex task, demanding a high degree of perceptual, cognitive, and sensorimotor skills to reduce intra-and post-operative complications. This process requires spatial reasoning to coordinate between the preoperatively acquired medical images and patient reference frames. In the case of neurosurgical interventions, traditional approaches to planning tend to focus on providing a means for visualizing medical images, but rarely support transformation between different spatial reference frames. Thus, surgeons often rely on their previous experience and intuition as their sole guide is to perform mental transformation. In case of junior residents, this may lead to longer operation times or increased chance of error under additional cognitive demands. In this paper, we introduce a mixed augmented-/virtual-reality system to facilitate training for planning a common neurosurgical procedure, brain tumour resection. The proposed system is designed and evaluated with human factors explicitly in mind, alleviating the difficulty of mental transformation. Our results indicate that, compared to conventional planning environments, the proposed system greatly improves the nonclinicians' performance, independent of the sensorimotor tasks performed (p < 0.01). Furthermore, the use of the proposed system by clinicians resulted in a significant reduction in time to perform clinically relevant tasks (p < 0.05). These results demonstrate the role of mixed-reality systems in assisting residents to develop necessary spatial reasoning skills needed for planning brain tumour resection, improving patient outcomes.

3D display has extensive application potential in the field of virtual reality. However, viewing 3D display for long time tends to induce users' visual fatigue such as headache, dizziness, etc. In order to improve the quality of 3D display and its user-friendliness, it's necessary to uncover the effective metrics which can detect and assess visual fatigue quantitatively and objectively. In order to solve the above-mentioned problem, a fatigue evaluation system is designed in which electrocardiogram (ECG) is studied with the analysis of heart rate asymmetry and ordinal pattern statistics. Subjects being evaluated are asked to watch 3D display for a given period of time and their ECGs are recorded in real time. The analysis of ECG shows that certain physiological indicators change significantly, the state of heart rate of the subjects watching 3D display is different from those without watching any 3D content and the distribution of ordinal pattern statistics reflects the state of visual fatigue.

With the increasing accessibility of the mobile head-mounted displays (HMDs), mobile virtual reality (VR) systems are finding applications in various areas. However, mobile HMDs are highly constrained with limited graphics processing units (GPUs) and low processing power and onboard memory. Hence, VR developers must be cognizant of the number of polygons contained within their virtual environments to avoid rendering at low frame rates and inducing simulator sickness. The most robust and rapid approach to keeping the overall number of polygons low is to use mesh simplification algorithms to create low-poly versions of preexisting, high-poly models. Unfortunately, most existing mesh simplification algorithms cannot adequately handle meshes with lots of boundaries or nonmanifold meshes, which are common attributes of many 3D models. In this article, we present QEM(4)VR, a high-fidelity mesh simplification algorithm specifically designed for VR. This algorithm addresses the deficiencies of prior quadric error metric (QEM) approaches by leveraging the insight that the most relevant boundary edges lie along curvatures while linear boundary edges can be collapsed. Additionally, our algorithm preserves key surface properties, such as normals, texture coordinates, colors, and materials, as it preprocesses 3D models and generates their low-poly approximations offline. We evaluated the effectiveness of our QEM(4)VR algorithm by comparing its simplified-mesh results to those of prior QEM variations in terms of geometric approximation error, texture error, progressive approximation errors, frame rate impact, and perceptual quality measures. We found that QEM(4)VR consistently yielded simplified meshes with less geometric approximation error and texture error than the prior QEM variations. It afforded better frame rates than QEM variations with boundary preservation constraints that create unnecessary lower bounds on overall polygon count reduction. Our evaluation revealed that QEM(4)VR did not fair well in terms of existing perceptual distance measurements, but human-based inspections demonstrate that these algorithmic measurements are not suitable substitutes for actual human perception. In turn, we present a user-based methodology for evaluating the perceptual qualities of mesh simplification algorithms.

This proposal will present the implementation of a technology that has become a key to the development of modern engineering worldwide: Immersive Virtual Reality, which allows future professionals of the careers involved to relate to cutting-edge technology that will be of conventional use in the short term. This activity has been carried out between 2018 and 2019. The year 2018 with 119 participating students and 49 direct users of the "Oculus Rift Touch" system. The implementation activity of Immersive Virtual Reality, for the year 2019, is associated with two transversal courses of the careers of Engineers College or School of Engineering: Calculation I and Electricity and Magnetism, with a total universe of 430 students. The implementation of this technology - in 2018 - was developed based on an activity previously defined by the Academic team and associated with two courses: "Computer Graphic Drawing" and "Building I" of the different careers of the School of Engineering. In both cases, a project was reviewed via printed planimetries and immersive Virtual Reality, and then conducted a series of surveys that allowed students to determine the accuracy and perception. The main results of the experience were related to the recognition of the level of precision according to the bibliography (the larger the project, the greater the incidence of recognition of its geometric features will be on the Immersive Virtual Reality), therefore for all cases studied, Virtual Reality delivered more precise results in the understanding of a three-dimensional model. Then - the experience in development this year 2019 - is related to the creation of a Virtual Library in which the student can enter - from anywhere in the world - select a particular subject and review a digital capsule with a specific content, allowing complementing the learned in their traditional classes. The capsules will be made with 2 combined formats: 360 degrees video and built-in three-dimensional elements, in order to generate a recording - with the participation of a teacher, narrating the class, and including previously modelled three-dimensional elements that contribute to the understanding of the case being studied. The content associated with the capsule of the Calculation I course will be the quadratic function. In Electricity and Magnetism: electric field. Students can see these capsules from the University or their home, based on low-cost systems - and with a lower degree of immersion - such as the so-called "Cardboard" that uses the computing power of current mobile phones. The project has been defined in three main phases associated with the design and technological execution, preparation of academic elements and, finally, the implementation and measurement of results. Unfortunately, due to the events of the social movement that occurred in Chile in October 2019, the final phase of implementation could not be carried out. Therefore, this proposal aims, is to expose both experiences and their results, in order to disseminate the characteristics of incorporating Virtual Reality in the education of the Engineering area, based on experiences associated with the three-dimensional understanding of a project - in the year 2018 -and of learning Basic Sciences in an analogous versus digital way - in the year 2019 -.

Purpose - In this study, a new methodology to evaluate the performance of physics simulation engines (PSEs) when used in haptic virtual assembly applications is proposed. This methodology can be used to assess the performance of any physics engine. To prove the feasibility of the proposed methodology, two-third party PSEs - Bullet and PhysXtm - were evaluated. The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach - Eight assembly tests comprising variable geometric and dynamic complexity were conducted. The strengths and weaknesses of each simulation engine for haptic virtual assembly were identified by measuring different parameters such as task completion time, influence of weight perception and force feedback. Findings - The proposed tests have led to the development of a standard methodology by which physics engines can be compared and evaluated. The results have shown that when the assembly comprises complex shapes, Bullet has better performance than PhysX. It was also observed that the assembly time is directly affected by the weight of virtual objects. Research limitations/implications - A more comprehensive study must be carried out in order to evaluate and compare the performance of more PSEs. The influence of collision shape representation algorithms on the performance of haptic assembly must be considered in future analysis. Originality/value - The performance of PSEs in haptic-enabled VR applications had been remained as an unknown issue. The main parameters of physics engines that affect the haptic virtual assembly process have been identified. All the tests performed in this study were carried out with the haptic rendering loop active and the objects manipulated through the haptic device. Z8 0

Augmented reality (AR) not only extends our perceptions and thinking about the world, but it also provides a new experience when enjoying entertainment content as a new type of media. Nonetheless, most researchers have focused on retrieving multimedia content on the AR platform, considering few contexts, and fewer have contemplated how to present content and provide a novel experience to people. Therefore, we design what is termed the Location-based Film Experience in an augmented place to suggest a new means of delivering multimedia content on the AR platform. For this service, comprehensive context awareness is the most important factor. This becomes possible when the system collects and analyzes various data from distributed computing recourses and infers the context of the users and related objects. In this respect, it is essential to standardize and formulate metadata schema, and we propose the 5W1H metadata schema for a context-aware multimedia service on the AR platform in a ubiquitous computing environment. The proposed 5W1H metadata schema helps users experience retrieved video clips in the places where they were filmed. People can watch a video clip where it was filmed and experience the real world as the background of the scene. We expect such a place-aware AR service to provide a new means by which to enjoy various videos as well as films and TV shows.

Background Detailed visualization and precise measurements of aortic valve dimensions are critical for the success of transcatheter aortic valve implantation and for the prevention of complications. Currently, multislice computed tomography is the gold standard for assessment of the aortic annulus and surrounding structures to determine the prosthesis size. New technologies such as virtual reality (VR) not only enable 3-dimensional (3D) visualization with the potential to improve understanding of anatomy and pathology but also allow measurements in 3D. This study aims to investigate the feasibility, accuracy, and reproducibility of VR for the visualization of the aortic valve, the surrounding structures, and its role in preprocedural sizing for transcatheter aortic valve implantation.Methods and Results Based on the preprocedural multislice computed tomography data, 3mensio measurements and 3D visualizations and measurements using VR software were performed retrospectively on 60 consecutive patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation at our heart center. There were no significant differences but strong correlations between the VR measurements compared with those performed with the 3mensio software. Furthermore, excellent or good intra- and interobserver reliability could be demonstrated for all values. In a structured questionnaire, users reported that VR simplified anatomical understanding, improved 3D comprehension of adjacent structures, and was associated with very good self-perceived depth perception.Conclusions The use of VR for preprocedural transcatheter aortic valve implantation sizing is feasible and has precise and reproducible measurements. In addition, 3D visualization improves anatomical understanding and orientation. To evaluate the potential benefits of 3D visualization for planning further cardiovascular interventions, research in this field is needed.

Purpose Leveraging the technology acceptance model (TAM) and the stimulus-organism-response (S-O-R) theory, this paper aims to investigate how the utilitarian and hedonic factors in virtual reality (VR) technologies affect consumers' intention to travel in the endemic phase of COVID-19. At the same time, the study incorporated emotional engagement and two forms of trust as possible organisms for this model. Design/methodology/approach Through snowball sampling, data collected from 263 respondents were analysed using the partial least square structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM). Findings The findings revealed that among the different forms of hedonic and utilitarian factors, all but perceived entertainment has a significant positive relationship to emotional engagement. Additionally, emotional engagement positively influences trust in the product and seller. However, the results show that only trust in the seller has a significant relationship with travelling intention. Predictive analysis shows that the model displays a strong predictive power. Originality/value This study differentiates from the existing literature by investigating the effect of VR technologies on the two different forms of trust and emotional engagement on travelling intention. This study extends earlier studies by supplementing the explanatory perspective with a predictive focus, which is particularly important in making sound recommendations on managerial decision-making.

Network visualizations are commonly used to analyze relationships in various contexts, such as social, biological, and geographical interactions. To efficiently explore a network visualization, the user needs to quickly navigate to different parts of the network and analyze local details. Recent advancements in display and interaction technologies inspire new visions for improved visualization and interaction design. Past research into network design has identified some key benefits to visualizing networks in 3D versus 2D. However, little work has been done to study the impact of varying levels of embodied interaction on network analysis. We present a controlled user study that compared four network visualization environments featuring conditions and hardware that leveraged different amounts of embodiment and visual perception ranging from a 2D visualization desktop environment with a standard mouse to a 3D visualization virtual reality environment. We measured the accuracy, speed, perceived workload, and preferences of 20 participants as they completed three network analytic tasks, each of which required unique navigation and substantial effort to complete. For the task that required participants to iterate over the entire visualization rather than focus on a specific area, we found that participants were more accurate using a VR HMD and a trackball mouse than conventional desktop settings. From a workload perspective, VR was generally considered the least mentally demanding and least frustrating to use in two of our three tasks. It was also preferred and ranked as the most effective and visually appealing condition overall. However, using VR to compare two side-by-side networks was difficult, and it was similar to or slower than other conditions in two of the three tasks. Overall, the accuracy and workload advantages of conditions with greater embodiment in specific tasks suggest promising opportunities to create more effective environments in which to analyze network visualizations.

Towards developing a coupled stability theory for haptic systems, we study the interaction of operators with time-delayed force feedback. In this work, we analyzed and validated experimentally the stability boundaries of an uncoupled system - without considering the human. We then designed an experiment in which the participants used a haptic device to interact with virtual elastic force fields in a stiffness discrimination task. We compared the performance and kinematics of users in uncoupled-unstable and uncoupled-stable conditions and characterized the stabilizing contribution of the users. We found that the users were able to perform the task regardless of the uncoupled-stability conditions. In addition, in uncoupled-unstable conditions, users maintained movement characteristics that were important for exploratory mediation, such as depth and duration of the movement, whereas other characteristics were not preserved. The results were reproduced in a simulation of the human controller that combined an inverse model and an optimal feedback controller. Adequate performance under the uncoupled-unstable yet coupled-stable conditions supports the potential benefit of designing for coupled stability of haptic systems. This could lead to the use of less conservative controllers than state-of-the-art solutions in haptic and teleoperation systems, and advance the fidelity of haptic feedback. Z8 0

Background: The confocal laser scanning microscope allows performing acquisition of several histological sections with precise visual morphological landmarks and their reconstruction. A powerful and modern confocal microscope enables to quickly reconstruct virtual 3D models. Objective: The main goal was to develop a new platform to reconstruct complex mosaic serial data, interact with it in an immersive 3D environment, and give to the observers a feeling of 'presence' inside the skin. Method: We have developed novel methods that transform the data into alternative representation, well-suited to explore cutaneous structures in detail and to observe fields of data from different points of view. This new way of data reconstruction in volume requires optimization of intensities, automatic matching algorithms and depth alignment. Results and conclusion: The new platform - SkinExplorer (TM) evolves as a 3D exploration prototype. This technology provides an immersive virtual environment to explore cutaneous microstructures. Several serial histological sections can be matched by stacks, aligned in depth by sections and merged together to be visualized as a whole. All these time-consuming steps have been dramatically speed-up using rapid image processing. The advantages of using virtual reality technologies such as the ones used in the SkinExplorer (TM) platform are automatic matching, precise alignment, better data perception, lower memory requirement, and higher quantity of simultaneously displayed data. This platform can render volumetric data and isosurfaces, separately or both at the same time. Lighting and depth perception are enhanced using 'Sphere Mapping', 'Ambient Occlusion', and 'Halo' methods when displaying iso-surfacic volume models with high complexity depth. The assets of the platform are to interpret complex three-dimensional data, to observe and explore 3D virtual models, and to show effects of cosmetic treatments.

This paper explores the viability of new touchscreen-based haptic/vibrotactile interactions as a primary modality for perceiving visual graphical elements in eyes-free situations. For touchscreen-based haptic information extraction to be both accurate and meaningful, the onscreen graphical elements should be schematized and downsampled to: (1) maximize the perceptual specificity of touch-based sensing and (2) account for the technical characteristics of touchscreen interfaces. To this end, six human behavioral studies were conducted with 64 blind and 105 blindfolded-sighted participants. Experiments 1-3 evaluated three key rendering parameters that are necessary for supporting touchscreen-based vibrotactile perception of graphical information, with results providing empirical guidance on both minimally detectable and functionally discriminable line widths, inter-line spacing, and angular separation that should be maintained. Experiments 4-6 evaluated perceptually-motivated design guidelines governing visual-to-vibrotactile schematization required for tasks involving information extraction, learning, and cognition of multi-line paths (e.g., transit-maps and corridor-intersections), with results providing clear guidance as to the stimulus parameters maximizing accuracy and temporal performance. The six empirically-validated guidelines presented here, based on results from 169 participants, provide designers and content providers with much-needed guidance on effectively incorporating perceptually-salient touchscreen-based haptic feedback as a primary interaction style for interfaces supporting nonvisual and eyes-free information access.

For our society to be more inclusive and accessible, the more than 2.2 billion people worldwide with limited vision should be considered more frequently in design decisions, such as architectural planning. To help architects in evaluating their designs and give medical personnel some insight on how patients experience cataracts, we worked with ophthalmologists to develop the first medically-informed, pilotstudied simulation of cataracts in eye-tracked augmented reality (AR). To test our methodology and simulation, we conducted a pilot study with cataract patients between surgeries of their two cataract-affected eyes. Participants compared the vision of their corrected eye, viewing through simulated cataracts, to that of their still affected eye, viewing an unmodified AR view. In addition, we conducted remote experiments via video call, live adjusting our simulation and comparing it to related work, with participants who had cataract surgery a few months before. We present our findings and insights from these experiments and outline avenues for future work.

Based on the Varioscope, a commercially available head-mounted operating binocular, we have developed the Varioscope AR, a see through head-mounted display (HMD) for augmented reality visualization that seamlessly fits into the infrastructure of a surgical navigation system. We have assessed the extent to which stereoscopic visualization improves target localization in computer-aided surgery in a phantom study. In order to quantify the depth perception of a user aiming at a given target, we have designed a phantom simulating typical clinical situations in skull base surgery. Sixteen steel spheres were fixed at the base of a bony skull, and several typical craniotomies were applied. After having taken CT scans, the skull was filled with opaque jelly in order to simulate brain tissue. The positions of the spheres were registered using VISIT, a system for computer-aided surgical navigation. Then attempts were made to locate the steel spheres with a bayonet probe through the craniotomies using VISIT and the Varioscope AR as a stereoscopic display device. Localization of targets 4 mm in diameter using stereoscopic vision and additional visual cues indicating target proximity had a success rate (defined as a first-trial hit rate) of 87.5%. Using monoscopic vision and target proximity indication, the success rate was found to be 66.6%. Omission of visual hints on reaching a target yielded a success rate of 79.2% in the stereo case and 56.25% with monoscopic vision. Time requirements for localizing all 16 targets ranged from 7.5 min (stereo, with proximity cues) to 10 min (mono, without proximity cues). Navigation error is primarily governed by the accuracy of registration in the navigation system, whereas the HMD does not appear to influence localization significantly. We conclude that stereo vision is a valuable tool in augmented reality guided interventions.

Immersive virtual environments (VEs) are increasingly used to evaluate human responses to design variables. VEs provide a tremendous capacity to isolate and readily adjust specific features of an architectural or product design. They also allow researchers to safely and effectively measure performance factors and physiological responses. However, the success of this form of design-testing depends on the generalizability of response measurements between VEs and real-world contexts. At the current time, there is very limited research evaluating the consistency of human response data across identical real and virtual environments. Rendering tools were used to precisely replicate a real-world classroom in virtual space. Participants were recruited and asked to complete a series of cognitive tests in the real classroom and in the virtual classroom. Physiological data were collected during these tests, including electroencephalography (EEG), electrocardiography (ECG), electrooculography (EOG), galvanic skin response (GSR), and head acceleration. Participants' accuracy on the cognitive tests did not significantly differ between the real classroom and the identical VE. However, the participants answered the tests more rapidly in the VE. No significant differences were found in eye blink rate and heart rate between the real and VR settings. Head acceleration and GSR variance were lower in the VE setting. Overall, EEG frequency band-power was not significantly altered between the real-world classroom and the VE. Analysis of EEG event-related potentials likewise indicated strong similarity between the real-world classroom and the VE, with a single exception related to executive functioning in a color-mismatch task.

Augmented reality (AR) applications have gained much research and industry attention. Moreover, the mobile counterpart-mobile augmented reality (MAR) is one of the most explosive growth areas for AR applications in the mobile environment (e.g., smartphones). The technical improvements in the hardware of smartphones, tablets, and smart-glasses provide an advantage for the wide use of mobile AR in the real world and experience these AR applications anywhere. However, the mobile nature of MAR applications can limit users' interaction capabilities, such as input and haptic feedback. In this survey, we analyze current research issues in the area of human-computer interaction for haptic technologies in MAR scenarios. The survey first presents human sensing capabilities and their applicability in AR applications. We classify haptic devices into two groups according to the triggered sense: cutaneous/tactile: touch, active surfaces, and mid-air; kinesthetic: manipulandum, grasp, and exoskeleton. Due to MAR applications' mobile capabilities, we mainly focus our study on wearable haptic devices for each category and their AR possibilities. To conclude, we discuss the future paths that haptic feedback should follow for MAR applications and their challenges.

Objective. To investigate the technical and clinical viability of using computer-facilitated mental practice in the rehabilitation of upper-limb hemiparesis following stroke. Design. A single-case study. Setting. Academic-affiliated rehabilitation center. Participant. A 46-year-old man with stable motor deficit of the upper right limb following subcortical ischemic stroke. Intervention. Three computer-enhanced mental practice sessions per week at the rehabilitation center, in addition to usual physical therapy. A custom-made virtual reality system equipped with arm-tracking sensors was used to guide mental practice. The system was designed to superimpose over the (unseen) paretic arm a virtual reconstruction of the movement registered from the nonparetic arm. The laboratory intervention was followed by a 1-month home- rehabilitation program, making use of a portable display device. Main outcome measures. Pretreatment and posttreatment clinical assessment measures were the upper-extremity scale of the Fugl-Meyer Assessment of Sensorimotor Impairment and the Action Research Arm Test. Performance of the affected arm was evaluated using the healthy arm as the control condition. Results. The patient's paretic limb improved after the first phase of intervention, with modest increases after home rehabilitation, as indicated by functional assessment scores and sensors data. Conclusion. Results suggest that technology-supported mental training is a feasible and potentially effective approach for improving motor skills after stroke. Z8 0

The accessibility verification of the assembly/disassembly plays an important role in the process of product design. In the last decade, the sampling based motion planners have been successfully applied to solve the accessibility verification. However, the narrow passage which is a common problem in the assembly tasks is still a bottleneck. Meanwhile, the requirement of perception and emotion assessment drives the interaction between users and automatic path planners in the virtual assembly process. In this paper, a curve matching method is used to explore the implicit relationship between the topological information of scenarios and the motion of objects, based on which an interactive motion planning framework that can learn from experience is constructed. Our framework consists of two main processes: a learning process and a motion generation process. In the former process, the motion segment (a part of motion path) and its related scenario segment (a part of workspace passed through by the object) are gathered, after an interactive motion planning process finds a collision-free motion path or reaches the conclusion of inaccessibility. According to the similarity between the skeletons of scenario segments, the gathered scenario segments and motion segments are organized by a hierarchical structure in the motion library. The latter process permits users to control only one point in the workspace for the selection of a new scenario, and then the similar scenarios are retrieved from the motion library, to help quickly detect the connectivity of the new scenario and generate a repaired motion path to guide users with feasible manipulations. We highlight the performance of our framework on a challenging problem in 2D, in which a non-convex object passes through a cluttered environment filled with randomly shaped and located non-convex obstacles. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Due to the difference in distance cognition between virtual and real symmetric space, it is difficult for users to accurately interact with the target in the Digital Twin system. In order to study the cross-effects of interaction task, target size and target location on the accuracy of egocentric peripersonal distance cognition, a 2 x 5 x 9 x 5 asymmetric experiment was designed and carried out. There were two kinds of interaction tasks, five kinds of interaction target widths and nine kinds of spatial locations set to estimate the five egocentric peripersonal distances. Based on the experimental data, with interaction task, target width and the actual spatial location as independent variables and virtual interaction location as a dependent variable, the mapping model between the actual physical location and virtual interaction location of different interaction targets was constructed and evaluated by multiple linear regression method. The results showed that the prediction model constructed by stepwise regression method was simple and less computationally intensive, but it had better stability and prediction ability. The correlation coefficients R-2 on xp, yp and zp were 0.994, 0.999 and 0.998, RMSE values were 2.583 cm, 1.0774 cm and 1.3155 cm, rRMSE values were 26.57%, 12.60% and 1.15%, respectively. The research of relevant experiments and the construction of models are helpful to solve the layout optimization problem of virtual interactive space in the Digital Twin system.

Walking for physical activity can bring important health benefits to older adults. In this population, walking has been related to various urban design features and street characteristics. To gain new insights into the microscale environmental details that might influence seniors' walking, details which might be more amenable to change than neighbourhood level factors, we employed a reliable streetscape audit tool, in combination with Google Street View T, to evaluate the 'walkability' of where older adults choose to walk. Analysis of the routes selected by a purposive sample of independently mobile adults aged 65 years and over living in Edinburgh, UK, revealed a preference to walk in more walkable environments, alongside a willingness to walk in less supportive settings. At times, factors commonly considered important for walking, including wayfinding and legibility, user conflict, kerb paving quality, and lighting appeared to have little impact on older adults' decisions about where to walk. The implications for policy, practice, and the emerging technique of virtual auditing are considered.

The previous work on cyberbullying has shown that the number of victims is increasing, and the need for prevention is exceptionally high among younger school students (5th-9th grade). Due to the omnipresence of cyberattacks, victims can hardly distance themselves psychologically, thus experience an intrusion in almost all areas of life. The perpetrators, on the other hand, feel the consequences of their actions even less in cyberspace. However, there is a gap between the need and the existence of innovative prevention programs tied to the digital reality of the target group and the treatment of essential aspects of psychological distance. This article explores the design space, feasibility, and effectiveness of a unique VR-based cyberbullying prevention component in a human-centered iterative approach. The central idea is reflected in creating a virtual personal space invasion with virtual objects associated with cyberbullying making the everyday intrusion of victims tangible. A pre-study revealed that harmful speech texts in bright non-removable message boxes best transferred the psychological determinants associated with a personal space invasion to virtual objects contextualized in cyberbullying scenarios. Therefore, these objects were incorporated into a virtual prevention program that was then tested in a laboratory study with 41 participants. The results showed that the intervention could trigger cognitive dissonance and empathy. In the second step, the intervention was evaluated and improved in a focus group with the actual target group of children and adolescents. The improved application was then evaluated in a school workshop for 5 days with 100 children and adolescents. The children understood the metaphor of virtual space invasion by the harmful text boxes and reported the expected psychological effects. They also showed great interest in VR. In summary, this paper contributes to the innovative and effective prevention of cyberbullying by using the potential of VR. It provides empirical evidence from a laboratory experiment and a field study with a large sample from the target group of children and adolescents and discusses implications for future developments.

Objectives: This study shows the development and validation of a dental anesthesia-training simulator specically for the inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB). The system developed provides the tactile sensation of inserting a real needle in a human patient, using Virtual Reality (VR) techniques and a haptic device that can provide a perceived force feedback in the needle insertion task during the anesthesia procedure. Material and Methods: To simulate a realistic anesthesia procedure, a Carpule syringe was coupled to a haptic device. The Volere method was used to elicit requirements from users in the Dentistry area; Repeated Measures Two-Way ANOVA (Analysis of Variance), Tukey post-hoc test and averages for the results' analysis. A questionnaire-based subjective evaluation method was applied to collect information about the simulator, and 26 people participated in the experiments (12 beginners, 12 at intermediate level, and 2 experts). The questionnaire included pro le, preferences (number of viewpoints, texture of the objects, and haptic device handler), as well as visual (appearance, scale, and position of objects) and haptic aspects (motion space, tactile sensation, and motion reproduction). Results: The visual aspect was considered appropriate and the haptic feedback must be improved, which the users can do by calibrating the virtual tissues' resistance. The evaluation of visual aspects was influenced by the participants' experience, according to ANOVA test (F= 15.6, p= 0.0002, with p < 0.01). The user preferences were the simulator with two viewpoints, objects with texture based on images and the device with a syringe coupled to it. Conclusion: The simulation was considered thoroughly satisfactory for the anesthesia training, considering the needle insertion task, which includes the correct insertion point and depth, as well as the perception of tissues resistances during the insertion.

This study examines the impact of the sound environment on spatial knowledge acquisition in a virtual outpatient polyclinic. Outpatient polyclinics have a salient role in determining early outpatient treatments of COVID19 to prevent hospitalization or death and reduce the burden on hospitals. However, they have not been widely investigated in the literature. The studies on spatial knowledge have identified environmental elements mainly related to vision with no focus on sound. Currently, there is limited research on the effect of sound environment on spatial knowledge acquisition in virtual outpatient polyclinics. In this study, a virtual simulated outpatient polyclinic has been created with varying levels of visual and audio cues. Eighty participants were assigned to one of the four groups: a control (no visual signage), a visual (visual signage), an only audio (no landmarks and no visual signage), and an audio-visual group. The virtual environment was presented as a video walkthrough with passive exploration to test spatial knowledge acquisition with tasks based on the landmark-route-survey model. The results showed that a combination of visual signage and sound environment resulted in higher spatial knowledge acquisition. No significant difference was found between the performance of the visual group and the control group that shows that signage alone cannot aid spatial knowledge in virtual outpatient polyclinics. Data from the only audio group suggests that landmarks associated with sound can compensate for the lack of visual landmarks that may help design a wayfinding system for users with visual disabilities.

The majority of blind people have limited or restricted access to education. For them, learning is a difficult task, as the acquisition of information is constrained by various factors, including the lack of accessibility to adaptable, user-centered educational tools. Over the last years, the interest in the field of virtual reality based learning tools for the visually impaired students has considerably increased. The employment of compensatory sensorial channels (for instance, hearing) led to the development of reliable, interactive software interfaces that facilitated the communication between the blind users and the computer and improved the educational process. The aim of this paper is to present, review and outline the most notable audio-based games in what concerns their usability as an educational tool for the visually impaired students. These games follow a user-centered design approach, taking into account the cognitive mental model of sensory perception and information processing that is specific to blind individuals. The purpose of audio-based games is to improve knowledge, spatial representation and localization, orientation and mobility, contextual and associative memory and to enhance the ability to perform problem solving tasks. As a result, recent studies have demonstrated that audio-based games have significantly increased and facilitated learning, having a substantial contribution to the cognitive development of blind students.

Public speaking anxiety is defined as a strong difficulty in speaking in front of an audience and has been shown to impair work performance and social relationships. Virtual Reality (VR) offers an efficient tool for modulating public speaking anxiety through a wide range of customizations concerning environmental settings. However, scientific research needs to understand better what features of the simulated environment are more important to increase or reduce participants' perceived discomfort. The present study investigates the role of visual (human vs cartoon characters) and acoustic (human vs robotic voice) audience features on perceived anxiety, sense of presence, and perceived realism in an interactive VR public speaking scenario. 42 participants (mean age = 24 y. o; Females = 30) performed four public speaking sessions, characterized by different levels (high vs. low) of graphic and acoustic audience design. Both explicit (questionnaires) and implicit physiological measures (Electrodermal activity-EDA) collected during audience interaction were used to assess the participants' experiences.The results showed that the features of the simulated audience played a crucial role in perceived anxiety during a virtual public speaking. Specifically, the more realistic level of graphic and acoustic stimuli resulted in higher levels of self-reported anxiety as compared to the lower realism level. However, the experienced realism and the sense of presence seem more affected by the graphical than acoustic features of the virtual environment. By contrast, the acoustic features impact on the interaction realism with the virtual audience. Interestingly, the robotic voice (lower acoustic realism) increased electrodermal response during the interaction with the audience, interpreted as a break in the sense of presence. A positive correlation between anxiety, sense of presence, and experienced realism was found. As well, perceived anxiety is correlated with electrodermal activity during the performance. Nevertheless, physiological activity is more affected by the first experience than the realism fea-tures, suggesting the presence of a habituation effect across the repeated sessions. Taken together, the results of our study showed that multisensory features (graphical and acoustic) of the virtual environment play a funda-mental role in creating realistic public speaking experiences and might be used within gamification strategies for soft skill training (e.g., for improving public speaking anxiety).

Background: Virtual reality (VR) exergaming has the potential to target sedentary behavior. Immersive environments can distract users from the physical exertion of exercise and can motivate them to continue exergaming. Despite the recent surge in VR popularity, numerous users still experience VR sickness from using head-mounted displays (HMDs). Apart from the commonly assessed self-reported symptoms, depth perception and cognition may also be affected. Considering the potential benefits of VR exergaming, it is crucial to identify the adverse effects limiting its potential and continued uptake. Objective: This study aims to investigate the consequences of playing one of the most popular VR exergames for 10 and 50 min on aspects of vision, cognition, and self-reported VR sickness. Methods: A total of 36 participants played an exergame, called Beat Saber, using an HMD. A repeated measures within-subject design was conducted to assess changes in vision, cognition, and well-being after short (10 min) and long (50 min) durations of VR exposure. We measured accommodation, convergence, decision speed, movement speed, and self-reported sickness at 3 test periods-before VR, immediately after VR, and 40 min after VR (late). Results: Beat Saber was well tolerated, as there were no dropouts due to sickness. For most participants, any immediate aftereffects were short-lived and returned to baseline levels after 40 min of exiting VR. For both short and long exposures, there were changes in accommodation (F-1,F-35=8.424; P=.006) and convergence (F-1,F-35=7.826; P=.008); however, in the late test period, participants returned to baseline levels. Measures on cognition revealed no concern. The total simulator sickness questionnaire (SSQ) scores increased immediately after VR (F-1,F-35=26.515; P<.001) and were significantly higher for long compared with short exposures (t(35)=2.807; P=.03), but there were no differences in exposure duration in the late test period, with scores returning to baseline levels. Although at a group level, participants' sickness levels returned to baseline 40 min after VR exposure, approximately 14% of the participants still reported high levels of sickness in the late test period after playing 50 min of Beat Saber. We also showed that the participants who experienced a high level of sickness after a short exposure were almost certain to experience a high level of symptoms after a longer exposure. Conclusions: Irrespective of the duration of exposure, this study found no strong evidence for adverse symptoms 40 min after exiting VR; however, some individuals still reported high levels of VR sickness at this stage. We recommend that users commit to a waiting period after exiting VR to ensure that any aftereffects have deteriorated. Exergames in HMDs have the potential to encourage people to exercise but are understudied, and the aftereffects of exergaming need to be closely monitored to ensure that VR exergames can reach their full potential.

Previous studies have sought insights into how websites can effectively draw sustained attention from internet users. Do different types of information presentations on webpages have different influences on users' perceptions of the information? More precisely, can combinations of an ever greater number of advertising elements on individual websites increase consumers' purchase intentions? The aim of this study is to explore changes in web advertising's verbal and visual stimulation of surfers' cognitive profess, and to provide valuable information for the successful matching of advertising elements to one another. We examine optimal website design according to the personality-trait theory and resource-matching theory. Study 1 addresses the effects that combinations of various types of online advertising can have on web design factor, and to this end, we use a 2 (visual complexity: 3D advertising with an avatar, 2D advertising) x 2 (verbal complexity: with or without self-referencing that is an advertising practice to express product claims in words) factorial design. Study 2 treats personality traits (i.e., need-for-cognition and sensation seeking) as moderating variables to build the optimal portfolio regarding the "online-advertising effects" hypothesis. Our results suggest that subjects prefer medium-complex advertising comprising "3D advertising elements with an avatar" or "2D advertising elements with self-referencing": high-sensation seekers and low-need-for-cognition viewers prefer the former, whereas low-sensation seekers and high-need-for-cognition viewers prefer the latter. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

AimTo compare three reaching movements made in two planes between a low-cost, game-based virtual reality and a matched physical environment in typically developing children and children with cerebral palsy (CP). To determine if differences in kinematics are related to sensory deficits. MethodAn observational study in which 27 children (typically developing, n=17, mean age 13y, [SD] 2y 2mo, range 9y 3mo-17y 2mo; CP, n=10, mean age 13y 8mo, [SD] 1y 8mo, range 11y 1mo-17y 1mo, Manual Ability Classification System levels I-II) performed 15 trials of threegestures in each of a virtual reality and a matched physical environment. Upper-limb and trunk kinematics were recorded using an electromagnetic system (G4, Polhemus, six markers, 120Hz). ResultsCompared to the physical environment, movements in virtual reality made by typically developing children were slower (p=0.002), and involved less trunk flexion (p=0.002) and rotation (p=0.026). Children with CP had more curved trajectories (p=0.005) and used less trunk flexion (p=0.003) and rotation (p=0.005). Elbow and shoulder kinematics differed from 2.8% to 155.4% between environments in both groups. Between groups, there were small, clinically insignificant differences with only the vertical gesture being longer in typically developing children. Children with CP who had greater tactile impairment used more trunk displacement. InterpretationClinicians and researchers need to be aware of differences in movement variables when setting goals or designing protocols for improving reaching in children with CP using low-cost, game-based virtual reality systems.

Presently, social cohesion (SC) is a priority at different levels. Cultural heritage is an ideal context to promote SC through interactive digital technologies designed to engage groups of visitors. The purpose of the present study is to identify how to design digital heritage applications for SC and how to measure it. The results are based on the design of a cultural probe kit used to identify the design elements on top of which a collaborative and hybrid prototype, the Brancacci POV, was developed. Here, we analysed the results of this prototype, which included 107 visitors with respective groups of 5 participants and guided by an expert. From this analysis, the possibility of strengthening SC when collaborative tasks are included emerged. Additionally, it appeared to be possible to shorten the distance between citizens and cultural institutions if "mediated dialogue" approaches were adopted and if focus, motivation, trust and "in-group" perception of inclusion emerge when digital heritage experiences were set in intimate and quiet environments.

In virtual reality (VR), correct and precise estimations of user's visual fixations and head movements can enhance the quality of experience by allocating more computation resources for analysing and rendering on the areas of interest. However, there is insufficient research about understanding the visual exploration of users when modeling VR visual attention. To bridge the gap between the saliency prediction for traditional 2D content and omnidirectional content, we construct the visual attention dataset and propose the visual saliency prediction framework for panoramic videos. Around the instantaneous viewing behavior, we propose a traditional method to adapt 2D saliency models and design a CNN-based model to better predict visual saliency. In the proposed traditional model, mechanism of visual attention and viewing behaviors are considered in the computation of edge weights on graphs which are interpreted as Markov chains. The fraction of the visual attention that is diverted to each high-clarity vision (HCV) area is estimated through equilibrium distribution of this chain. We also propose the Graph-Based CNN model. The RGB channel and optical flow form the spatial-temporal units of HCVs, from which node feature vectors are extracted. Graph convolution is used to learn the mutual information between node feature vectors of HCVs and retain geometric information. Then feature vectors are aligned according to geometry structure of equirectangular format, and the feature decoder maps the aligned feature maps to the data distribution. We also construct the dynamic omnidirectional monocular (DOM) saliency dataset with 64 diverse videos evaluated by 28 people. The subjective results show that the instantaneous viewing behavior is important in the VR experience. Extensive experiments are conducted on the dataset and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. The dataset will be released to facilitate the future studies related to visual saliency prediction for 360-degree contents.

This research aimed to analyse the influence of presentation means in assessing different household product characteristics and to study the influence of physical contact with the product on that assessment. To this end, the presentation of an armchair in four different means was prepared: two offering the chance to touch the product (real setting and virtual reality with passive haptics) and two not offering the physical interaction possibility (virtual reality and 3D interactive image on a screen). The product was assessed by 128 volunteers (74 men, 54 women) on a semantic scale with 12 bipolar pairs. The results revealed that the presentation means did not influence the overall product assessment, but affected the assessment of 3 of 12 features (weight, size, and aesthetics), where coming into physical contact with the product impacted the assessment of these features. Finally, similar assessments of the product were obtained in both cu means of visual-only presentation.

Purpose: Mirror therapy (MT) is an effective adjunct treatment for Bell's palsy (BP); however, a bifold mirror-based apparatus hindered the effectiveness. Besides, few studies have reported the related factors of facial embodiment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of a novel face mirroring System (FMS) and the effects on facial embodiment in BP patients, comparing with conventional mirror book (MB) therapy. Method: This was a within-subject design trial. Thirty-six BP patients were recruited and received investigations on user experience and perception of facial embodiment after each facial task (reset, facial expression, and enunciation) when using both FMS and MB separately and randomly. Results: Data of questionnaires showed FMS had a better user experience and perception of facial embodiment comparing with MB. Patients agreed more strongly on the statements of facial embodiment for facial expression and enunciation tasks when using both apparatuses, comparing with rest. Conclusions: The FMS is a feasible and optimal setup to provide MT for BP patients. Moreover, speech paired motor training is a superior strategy for facilitating facial embodiment.

Context circle Studies have found evidence for meditation's positive effects on health and well-being, but the difficulty of learning and engaging in meditation practice has been identified as a major barrier. Virtual reality (VR) technology may facilitate meditation practice by immersing users in a distraction-free and calming virtual environment, although this theory has yet to be rigorously tested. Objective circle This study intended to examine the efficacy of VR-guided meditation in a population of US veterans as a tool to facilitate meditation and relaxation practice for reduction of stress and chronic pain as well as to elicit participants' feedback regarding their perceptions of VR-guided meditation. Design circle The research team designed a preliminary study to identify the scope of future investigations. Setting circle The study was conducted at an outpatient polytrauma clinic in a Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Health Care System, located in Palo Alto, California. Participants circle Participants were a convenience sample of 31 veterans, with an average age of 55.2 years, who were patients at the polytrauma clinic and who had conditions with varying levels of stress and chronic pain. Intervention circle All participants completed a 10-minute, VR-guided-meditation session based on the Zen form of meditation. Outcome Measures circle At baseline immediately before and postintervention immediately after the VR meditation session, self-report ratings of pain and stress, physiological measures testing heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP), and participants' survey responses that assessed their experiences with, attitudes toward, and concerns about VR for clinical therapy were obtained. Results circle Participants showed statistically significant reductions in self-reported pain and stress, HR, and systolic and diastolic BP. Participants reported high satisfaction with VR-guided meditation, and few reported negative side-effects. Conclusions circle The study provided evidence for the usefulness of VR technology as a facilitator of meditation practice for reduction of stress and chronic pain. Future studies are needed to examine the long-term effects of repeated VR-guided-meditation sessions for patients with stress and chronic pain. Z8 0

The unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) swarms have shown great potential to serve next-generation communication networks with their extraordinary flexibility, affordability, and the ability to collaboratively and autonomously provide Line-of-Sight (LoS) services. However, autonomous collaboration under wireless dynamics is challenging. Distributed learning (DL) provides a chance for the UAV swarms to operate intelligently under sophisticated dynamics, such that they can be applied to wireless communication service scenarios, as well as applications including multidirectional remote surveillance, and target tracking. In this survey, we first introduce several popular DL frameworks that are capable of managing a UAV swarm, these include federated learning (FL), multiagent reinforcement learning (MARL), distributed inference (DI), and split learning (SL). We also present a comprehensive overview of how these DL frameworks manage UAV swarms in regard to trajectory design, power control, wireless resource allocation, user assignment, perception, and satellite-drone integration. Then, we present several state-of-the-art applications of UAV swarms in wireless communication systems, such as reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RISs), virtual reality (VR), and semantic communications (SemComs), and discuss the problems and challenges that DL-enabled UAV swarms can solve in these applications. Finally, we describe open problems of using DL in UAV swarms and future research directions of DL-enabled UAV swarms. In summary, this survey provides a concise survey of various DL applications for UAV swarms in extensive scenarios.

Virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) developed using immersive or semi-immersive virtual environments present a usability problem for practitioners. To meet practitioner requirements for lower cost and portability VRET programs must often be ported onto desktop environments such as the personal computer (PC). However, success of VRET has been shown to be linked to presence, and the environment's ability to evoke the same reactions and emotions as a real experience. It is generally accepted that high-end virtual environments ( VEs) are more immersive than desktop PCs, but level of immersion does not always predict level of presence. This paper reports on the impact on presence of porting a therapeutic VR application for Schizophrenia from the initial research environment of a semi-immersive curved screen to PC. Presence in these two environments is measured both introspectively and across a number of causal factors thought to underlie the experience of presence. Results show that the VR exposure program successfully made users feel they were "present" in both platforms. While the desktop PC achieved higher scores on presence across causal factors participants reported they felt more present in the curved screen environment. While comparison of the two groups was statistically significant for the PQ but not for the IPQ, subjective reports of experiences in the environments should be considered in future research as the success of VRET relies heavily on the emotional response of patients to the therapeutic program.

The progress of commercial VR headsets largely depends on the progress of sensor technology, the iteration of which often means longer research and development cycles, and also higher costs. With the continuous maturity and increasing competition of VR headsets, designers need to create a balance among user needs, technologies, and costs to achieve commercial competition advantages. To make accurate judgments, consumer feedback and opinions are particularly important. Due to the increasing maturity in the technology of commercial VR headsets in recent years, the cost has been continuously decreasing, and potential consumers have gradually increased. With the increase in consumer demand for virtual reality headsets, it is particularly important to establish a perceptual quality evaluation system. The relationship between consumer perception and product quality determined by evaluations of experience is improving. Using the research method implemented in this work, through semi-structured interviews and big data analysis of VR headset consumption, the perceptual quality elements of VR headsets are proposed, and the order of importance of perceptual quality attributes is determined by questionnaire surveys, quantitative analysis, and verification. In this study, the perceptual quality elements, including technical perceptual quality (TPQ) and value perceptual quality (VPQ), of 14 types of VR headsets were obtained, and the importance ranking of the VR headsets' perceptual quality attributes was constructed. In theory, this study enriches the research on VR headsets. In practice, this study provides better guidance and suggestions for designing and producing VR headsets so that producers can better understand which sensor technology has met the needs of consumers, and which sensor technology still has room for improvement.

Blood gas analysis plays a central role in modern medicine. Advances in technology have expanded the range of available parameters and increased the complexity of their interpretation. By applying user-centered design principles, it is possible to reduce the cognitive load associated with interpreting blood gas analysis. In this international, multicenter study, we explored anesthesiologists' perspectives on Visual Blood, a novel visualization technique for presenting blood gas analysis results. We conducted interviews with participants following two computer-based simulation studies, the first utilizing virtual reality (VR) (50 participants) and the second without VR (70 participants). Employing the template approach, we identified key themes in the interview responses and formulated six statements, which were rated using Likert scales from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) in an online questionnaire. The most frequently mentioned theme was the positive usability features of Visual Blood. The online survey revealed that participants found Visual Blood to be an intuitive method for interpreting blood gas analysis (median 4, interquartile range (IQR) 4-4, p < 0.001). Participants noted that minimal training was required to effectively learn how to interpret Visual Blood (median 4, IQR 4-4, p < 0.001). However, adjustments are necessary to reduce visual overload (median 4, IQR 2-4, p < 0.001). Overall, Visual Blood received a favorable response. The strengths and weaknesses derived from these data will help optimize future versions of Visual Blood to improve the presentation of blood gas analysis results.

Immersive multimedia applications such as 360 degrees videos and virtual reality (VR) live broadcasting are expected to receive increased popularity in the consumer markets. These applications provide three-dimensional spatial information and require to develop the related advanced wired and wireless ecosystems ranging from head-mounted displays (HMDs) and processors to network connectivity. To develop immersive multimedia systems that provide acceptable user experiences, it is essential to conduct subjective experiments that support assessing subjective video quality as perceived by the users. In this paper, we focus on the question of how many participants are needed in subjective experiments for 360 degrees videos such that a statistically meaningful subjective quality assessment is supported. For this purpose, a subjective experiment for 360 degrees videos has been conducted using the modified absolute category rating with hidden reference (M-ACR-HR) method. A statistical analysis of the opinion scores given by the participants to the visual stimuli shown on an HMD is provided. In particular, mean opinion scores (MOS), differential MOS (DMOS), and the associated margin of error (MoE) and differential MoE are obtained. It is shown that 21 to 26 participants would be sufficient to drive the differential MoE of the DMOS below the given thresholds of epsilon = 1% and epsilon = 0.75%, respectively.

Nowadays, many sectors are harnessing virtual reality to attain fresh user engagement rates and are therefore increasing in popularity year after year. The scope of this paper is to show the necessary skills like, critical thinking and problem solving among others and experiences needed for building a learning scenario related to the naval training. This scenario will cover all the aspects of naval training, like the maintenance and design of a ship and how real world problems related to the management of a ship can be solved. Two teachers from CIFP Ferrolterra, a Vocational Center of Ferrol, on the north of Galicia, provided useful feedback for this learning scenario. This feedback was provided after face to face interviews with these teachers. Scope of this learning scenario, is to further engage and motivate learners via the use of VR technologies. In order to examine student's willingness to use VR technologies, a questionnaire was distributed among them. Some of the students participated in face to face interviews, in order to provide some additional thoughts regarding VR technologies. These interviews, provided their perceptions about this new kind of outstanding immersive content. The results of the survey and face to face interviews will be presented on this paper. This scenario will be used in order to create a VR application on a later stage. As a result, a comparison between the available tools and technologies will also be presented.

Background: Augmented reality (AR) is a new technology that increases users' perception of the real world. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of augmented reality navigation system in treatment with craniofacial fracture reduction. Methods: This will be a single-center prospective randomized controlled trial. Twenty-two patients will be assigned to two groups of 11, and those with zygomaticomaxillary complex fractures will undergo preoperative three-dimensional CT modeling and have operational plans designed. The control team will use traditional optical navigation to perform the surgery, and the experimental team will use an AR navigation system. The primary outcome measures will be the accuracy of the key points of surgical area between the preoperational surgical plan and post-operation. The secondary outcome measures will be the blood loss, operation time, bone reduction time, hospital time, and complication rate. The findings obtained through this study are expected to evaluate efficacy and safety of the augmented reality navigation system in the treatment of zygomaticomaxillary complex fractures. Discussion: This controlled trial of augmented reality navigation system in treatment with zygomaticomaxillary complex fracture reduction will clarify the efficacy and safety of this technology by measuring the accuracy of the key points of surgical area and blood loss, operation and bone reduction times, hospital stay duration, and complication rates. This is a single-center study, and the results are expected to promote the application of augmented reality in craniofacial fracture reduction to improve surgery accuracy and efficacy.

ObjectiveThe aim of this work was to examine the fidelity and validity of an aviation simulation using eye tracking.BackgroundCommercial head-mounted virtual reality (VR) systems offer a convenient and cost-effective alternative to existing aviation simulation (e.g., for refresher exercises). We performed pre-implementation testing of a novel aviation simulation, designed for head-mounted VR, to determine its fidelity and validity as a training device.MethodEighteen airline pilots, with varying levels of flight experience, completed a sequence of training 'flows.' Self-reported measures of presence and workload and users' perceptions of fidelity were taken. Pilots' eye movements and performance were recorded to determine whether more experienced pilots showed distinct performance and eye gaze profiles in the simulation, as they would in the real-world.ResultsReal-world expertise correlated with eye gaze patterns characterized by fewer, but longer, fixations and a scan path that was more structured and less random. Multidimensional scaling analyses also indicated differential clustering of strategies in more versus less experienced pilots. Subjective ratings of performance, however, showed little relationship with real-world expertise or eye movements.ConclusionWe adopted an evidence-based approach to assessing the fidelity and validity of a VR flight training tool. Pilot reports indicated the simulation was realistic and potentially useful for training, while direct measurement of eye movements was useful for establishing construct validity and psychological fidelity of the simulation.

The introduction of technologic advances such as high-definition television, three-dimensional laparoscopy, and further miniaturization of high-resolution digital video cameras allows for significantly enhanced opportunities for laparoscopic surgical proficiency, and further broadening of laparoscopic applications in urology These enhancements coupled with the recent advances in telemedicine and surgical simulation will improve laparoscopic training and skill acquisition, decrease operative times and costs, minimize morbidity, and improve overall patient care. This monograph reviews recent advances in laparoscopic imaging technologies, teleconsultation, and laparoscopic surgical simulation. Z8 1

PURPOSE Limited access to adequate cancer surgery training is one of the driving forces behind global inequities in surgical cancer care. Affordable virtual reality (VR) surgical training could enhance surgical skills in low- and middle-income settings, but most VR and augmented reality systems are too expensive and do not teach open surgical techniques commonly practiced in these contexts. New low-cost VR can offer skill development simulations relevant to these settings, but little is known about how knowledge is gained and applied by surgeons training and working in specific resource-constrained settings. This study addresses this gap, exploring gynecologic oncology trainee learning and user experience using a low-cost VR simulator to learn to perform an open radical abdominal hysterectomy in Lusaka, Zambia. METHODS Eleven surgical trainees rotating through the gynecologic oncology service were sequentially recruited from the University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka to participate in a study evaluating a VR radical abdominal hysterectomy training designed to replicate the experience in a Zambian hospital. Six participated in semistructured interviews following the training. Interviews were analyzed using open and axial coding, informed by grounded theory. RESULTS Simulator participation increased participants' perception of their surgical knowledge, confidence, and skills. Participants believed their skills transferred to other related surgical procedures. Having clear goals and motivation to improve were described as factors that influenced success. CONCLUSION For cancer surgery trainees in lower-resourced settings learning medical and surgical skills, even for those with limited VR experience, low-cost VR simulators may enhance anatomical knowledge and confidence. The VR simulator reinforced anatomical and clinical knowledge acquired through other modalities. VRenhanced learning may be particularly valuable when mentored learning opportunities are limited. (C) 2021 by American Society of Clinical Oncology

Purpose The transition to omnichannel retail is the recognized future of retail, which uses digital technologies (e.g. augmented reality shopping assistants) to enhance the customer shopping experience. However, retailers struggle with the implementation of such technologies in brick-and-mortar stores. Against this background, the present study investigates the impact of a smartphone-based augmented reality shopping assistant application, which uses personalized recommendations and explainable artificial intelligence features on customer shopping experiences. Design/methodology/approach The authors follow a design science research approach to develop a shopping assistant application artifact, evaluated by means of an online experiment (n = 252), providing both qualitative and quantitative data. Findings Results indicate a positive impact of the augmented reality shopping assistant application on customers' perception of brick-and-mortar shopping experiences. Based on the empirical insights this study also identifies possible improvements of the artifact. Research limitations/implications This study's assessment is limited to an online evaluation approach. Therefore, future studies should test actual usage of the technology in brick-and-mortar stores. Contrary to the suggestions of established theories (i.e. technology acceptance model, uses and gratification theory), this study shows that an increase of shopping experience does not always convert into an increase in the intention to purchase or to visit a brick-and-mortar store. Additionally, this study provides novel design principles and ideas for crafting augmented reality shopping assistant applications that can be used by future researchers to create advanced versions of such applications. Practical implications This paper demonstrates that a shopping assistant artifact provides a good opportunity to enhance users' shopping experience on their path-to-purchase, as it can support customers by providing rich information (e.g. explainable recommendations) for decision-making along the customer shopping journey. Originality/value This paper shows that smartphone-based augmented reality shopping assistant applications have the potential to increase the competitive power of brick-and-mortar retailers. Z8 0

While head-mounted display (HMD) technologies have undergone great developments since the first HMD for 3D visualization originated by Ivan Sutherland in the 1960's, HMD technologies have suffered from tradeoffs in capability and limitation. The main issues of HMDs include the tradeoff between resolution and field of view (FOV), the presence of large distortion for wide field of view designs, the inaccurate eye point representation, the conflict of accommodation and convergence, the occlusion contradiction between virtual and real objects, the challenge of highly precise registration, and often the brightness conflict with background illumination. Some of these issues impose critical affects on accuracy of visualization, user performance and safety. Among these issues, the ignorance of eye movement is a typical aspect. Most of the current HMD technology uses head pose to approximate line-of-sight, which may cause significant disparity between what you are intended to look at and what you actually look at as a result of at least +/- 20 degrees eye movement. It is highly necessary to integrate eye-tracking capability into HMDs in some demanding applications. An HMD-eyetracker integrated system would be able to display stereoscopic virtual images as a classical HMD does, and also be able to tracking the gaze direction of the user. This paper will provide a brief survey of the eye tracking technologies that are suitable for HMD integration purpose, present an approach to integrating eye tracking technology into optical see-through type of HMDs, and discuss critical issues challenging the integration. Furthermore, early engineering implementation and experimental results are published.

Virtual agents have been widely used in human-agent collaboration work. One important problem with human-agent collaboration is the attribution of responsibility as perceived by users. We focused on the relationship between the appearance of a virtual agent and the attribution of perceived responsibility. We conducted an experiment with five agents: an agent without an appearance, a human-like agent, a robot-like agent, a dog-like agent, and an angel-like agent. We measured the perceived agency and experience for each agent, and we conducted an experiment involving a sound-guessing game. In the game, participants listened to a sound and guessed what the sound was with an agent. At the end of the game, the game finished with failure, and the participants did not know who made the mistake, the participant or the agent. After the game, we asked the participants how they perceived the agents' trustworthiness and to whom they attributed responsibility. As a result, participants attributed less responsibility to themselves when interacting with a robot-like agent than interacting with an angel-like robot. Furthermore, participants perceived the least trustworthiness toward the robot-like agent among all conditions. In addition, the agents' perceived experience had a correlation with the attribution of perceived responsibility. Furthermore, the agents that made the participants feel their attribution of responsibility to be less were not trusted. These results suggest the relationship between agents' appearance and perceived attribution of responsibility and new methods for designs in the creation of virtual agents for collaboration work.

Simulation of behaviors in emergencies is an interesting subject that helps to understand evacuation processes and to give out warnings for contingency plans. Individual and crowd behaviors in the earthquake are different from those under normal circumstances. Panic will spread in the crowd and cause chaos. Without considering emotion, most existing behavioral simulation methods analyze the movement of people from the point of view of mechanics. After summarizing existing studies, a new simulation method is discussed in this paper. First, 3D virtual scenes are constructed with the proposed platform. Second, an individual cognitive architecture, which integrates perception, motivation, behavior, emotion, and personality, is proposed. Typical behaviors are analyzed and individual evacuation animations are realized with data captured by motion capture devices. Quantitative descriptions are presented to describe emotional changes in individual evacuation. Facial expression animation is used to represent individuals' emotions. Finally, a crowd behavior model is designed on the basis of a social force model. Experiments are carried out to validate the proposed method. Results showed that individuals' behavior, emotional changes, and crowd aggregation can be well simulated. Users can learn evacuation processes from many angles. The method can be an intuitional approach to safety education and crowd management.

With the increasing popularity of the Metaverse concept, human beings have stepped to a new height in the intelligent technology progress. This work presents a literature review of the current research on Human-Computer Interaction in the Metaverse. Keywords like "Metaverse," "Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)," "virtual space," "virtual technology," "three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction," "parallel universe," "independent identity," "access to interests," and "blockchain" are used to search for relevant articles in the literature in databases like Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Academic. Nearly 100 advanced studies on the Metaverse are selected from over 20,000 documents covering 2018-2023. Finally, the current application state of the Metaverse's underlying technologies is explored and described using the PRISMA principles; these technologies include the fifth-generation (5 G) communication, HCI, virtual technology, blockchain, and 3D reconstruction. Moreover, the predictions for HCI's future growth in the Metaverse are made. The review concludes that the rapid advancement of the 5 G connection has made the concept of the Metaverse possible. The blockchain ensures the safety of currency transactions in the Metaverse virtual space. There will be a shift toward "invisibility" in the way that humans and computers interact in virtual worlds. In other words, HCI will be transparent to the user in the digital realm, and people will get along with the computer in a natural and equitable way. In the interaction, wearable devices allow for an immersive experience in the interaction, but they restrict the participants' freedom of movement and perception. The more humanized somatosensory connection will gain traction in the future, bringing people one step closer to the Metaverse.

Ionotronic artificial motion and tactile receptor (i-AMTR) is essential to realize an interactive human-machine interface. However, an i-AMTR that effectively mimics the composition, structure, mechanics, and multi-functionality of human skin, called humanoid i-AMTR, is yet to be developed. To bridge this technological gap, this study proposes a strategy that combines molecular structure design and function integration to construct a humanoid i-AMTR. Herein, a silk fibroin ionoelastomer (SFIE) with double cross-linked molecular structure is designed to mimic the composition and structure of human skin, thereby resolving the conflict of stretchability, softness, and resilience, suffered by many previously reported ionotronics. Functionally, electromechanical sensing and triboelectricity-based tactile perception are integrated into SFIE, to enable simultaneous perception of both motion and tactile inputs. By further leveraging the machine learning and Internet of Things (IoT) techniques, the proposed SFIE-based humanoid i-AMTR precisely senses the movement of human body and accurately sortball objects made of different materials. Notably, the success rate for 610 sorting tests reaches as high as 92.3%. These promising results essentially demonstrate a massive potential of humanoid i-AMTR in the fields of sorting robots, rehabilitation medicine, and augmented reality.

We describe an experiment to assess the influence of body movements on presence in a virtual environment. In the experiment 20 participants were to walk through a virtual field of trees and count the trees with diseased leaves. A 2 x 2 between-subjects design was used to assess the influence of two factors on presence: tree height variation and task complexity. The field with greater variation in tree height required participants to bend down and look up more than in the lower variation tree height field. In the higher complexity task participants were told to remember the distribution of diseased trees in the field as well as to count them. The results showed a significant positive association between reported presence and the amount of body movement - in particular, head yaw - and the extent to which participants bent down and stood up. There was also a strong interaction effect between task complexity and gender: Women in the more-complex task reported a much lower sense of presence than in the simpler task. For applications in which presence is an important requirement, the research in this paper suggests that presence will be increased when interaction techniques are employed that permit the user to engage in whole-body movement.

The purpose of this study was to explore resident perceptions regarding four current models for teaching laparoscopic suturing and to assess the current quality of training in advanced minimally invasive surgical techniques at an academic teaching center. This study included 14 senior general surgery residents (PGY 3-5) participating in a workshop in advanced laparoscopy. Four training tools were used in the course curriculum: the Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery (FLS) black box suturing model, a synthetic Nissen fundoplication model, a virtual reality (VR) simulator suturing task, and a porcine jejuno-jejunostomy model. After the workshop, residents were asked to complete a questionnaire relating to their experience with laparoscopic surgery, and their opinions regarding the four training models. Model rank was analyzed with one-way ANOVA, and chi(2) analysis with Fisher's exact test was used to analyze model effectiveness. The majority of residents had strong experience in basic laparoscopic cases such as cholecystectomy and appendectomy; however, few participants had experience in advanced cases. As a group, the residents ranked the porcine model first (average 1.6, median 1), followed by the synthetic Nissen model (average 2.0, median 2), the FLS model (average 2.5, median 3), and the VR trainer (average 3.2, median 4). Finally, each resident was asked to rate the four models individually with respect to their educational value. Scores were on a Likert scale from 1 to 5. Nine of 11 (81.8%) residents rated the animal model as "extremely helpful" while only 3 of 14 (21.4%) participants rated the VR model as "extremely helpful" (p = 0.048). This study demonstrates that operative experience in advanced laparoscopy for senior residents is suboptimal. Residents learning this skill in a simulated environment prefer animal or video-trainers as teaching models rather than virtual reality. This has implications when designing a curriculum for advanced endoscopy.

Voice-based interfaces provide new opportunities for firms to interact with consumers along the customer journey. The current work demonstrates across four studies that voice-based (as opposed to text-based) interfaces promote more flow-like user experiences, resulting in more positively-valenced service experiences, and ultimately more favorable behavioral firm outcomes (i.e., contract renewal, conversion rates, and consumer sentiment). Moreover, we also provide evidence for two important boundary conditions that reduce such flow-like user experiences in voice-based interfaces (i.e., semantic disfluency and the amount of conversational turns). The findings of this research highlight how fundamental theories of human communication can be harnessed to create more experiential service experiences with positive downstream consequences for consumers and firms. These findings have important practical implications for firms that aim at leveraging the potential of voice-based interfaces to improve consumers' service experiences and the theory-driven "conversational design" of voice-based interfaces.

Adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) face daily challenges dealing with stress, for example, at work, or in public spaces, which can be overwhelming in terms of coping with sensory overload. Technological interventions have been created in order to attempt to counter symptoms of stress, through improving cognition and functioning of target users. Mobile devices, virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) applications have demonstrated the ability to support and improve clinical practices through sensory based technologies. In this paper, we present the initial phase of research concerning an online survey conducted with over 200 autistic participants and caregivers. We report on the identifcation of currently used technological preferences, triggers associated with stress, issues regarding sensitivity and perception, the needs of caregivers, as well as the perceived potential for new technologies. The study has identifed that sensitivity to sound and light remain key stress triggers for those on the autism spectrum. Headphones and mobile devices were considered to be suitable methods of accessing multi-sensory stimuli to help manage stress. Augmented Reality and VR were identifed by autistic participants as technologies that might aid in the reduction of unpredictable stress-related events. The insights gained from the research will inform future research regarding the design of technological self-interventions for stress management in autistic adults.

This work presents the development and usability evaluation of the MazeVR game, a maze game designed for the Google Cardboard device. The game allows interactions through head movements to control the camera and gestures on the smartwatch to perform additional actions, such as starting and stopping walking, picking up and discarding torches, and clearing the path. Gesture recognition on the smartwatch is performed using the continuous gesture recognition algorithm. The main objective was to create an immersive and challenging experience for players, allowing them to explore the maze and overcome obstacles using only head movements and gestures on the smartwatch. An evaluation was conducted with volunteer experts, using the SUS questionnaire as a data collection method. The results indicated a positive perception of the usability and effectiveness of the method. The experts considered the method intuitive, easy to learn and use, and highlighted the smooth integration of system functionalities. The results demonstrated satisfactory usability and a positive user experience.

The digitalisation of museums is critical for preserving cultural artefacts and for public education. However, what digitally attracts younger generations to cultural heritage displays while boosting value perception among visitors and initiating conversations with history remains conceptually unclear. This study investigates conversations and connections among historical legacies, digital technologies, and younger generations. Using a structural equation model, the authors examine the role of existing digital tools used to engage millennial museum visitors, connect with history, and enhance social recognition of culture. Furthermore, they developed an integrated explanatory Cognitive Identity-Agent-Symbolism-Engagement (CIASE) model to identify the associations between variables. The findings recommend a technology-driven pathway for integrating user experience, digital technology, and cultural heritage to design better visitor experiences, explore their sense of cultural identity, and establish a stable connection between culture and individuals.

Color asymmetry is a common phenomenon in 3D displays, which can cause serious visual discomfort. To ensure safe and comfortable stereo viewing, the color difference between the left and right eyes should not exceed a threshold value, named comfortable color difference limit (CCDL). In this paper, we have experimentally measured the CCDL for five sample color points which were selected from the 1976 CIE u'v' chromaticity diagram. By human observers viewing brief presentations of color asymmetry image pairs, a psychophysical experiment is conducted. As the color asymmetry image pairs, left and right circular patches are horizontally adjusted on image pixels with five levels of disparities: 0, +/- 60, +/- 120 arc minutes, along six color directions. The experimental results showed that CCDLs for each sample point varied with the level of disparity and color direction. The minimum of CCDL is 0.019 Delta(u' v '), and the maximum of CCDL is 0.133 Delta(u ' v '). The database collected in this study might help 3D system design and 3D content creation.

Purpose To examine how risk of injury can arise for child pedestrians. Methods Using a highly immersive virtual reality system interfaced with a 3-D movement measurement system, younger (M = 8 years) and older (M = 10 years) children's crossing behaviors were measured under conditions that introduced variation in vehicle speed, distance, and intervehicle gaps. Results Children used distance cues in deciding when to cross; there were no age or sex differences. This increased risk of injury in larger intervehicle gaps because they started late and did not monitor traffic or adjust walking speed as they crossed. In contrast, injury risk in smaller intervehicle gaps of equal risk (i.e., same time to contact) occurred because crossing behavioral adjustments (starting early, increasing walking speed while crossing) were not sufficient. Conclusions Dependence on distance cues increases children's risk of injury as pedestrians when crossing in a variety of traffic situations.

Recent developments in general theories of cognition and brain function make it possible to consider the concept of presence from a new perspective, based in general principles of brain function. The importance of interaction with reality for the development and function of the brain and human cognition is increasingly emphasized. The brain is explained as implementing a generative model of the current environment. Whether this environment is real or virtual does not matter. Mental simulations are created for whatever one interacts with, when possible. This view provides a basis for relating human experiences in virtual environments to several theories that explain cognition and brain function on many levels, from ultimate evolutionary motivations to plausible neural implementations. The purpose of this paper is not to provide yet another definition of presence but to suggest explanations of phenomena commonly related to presence, with a basis in general principles of brain function. Such principles are employed to explain how, and why, interaction with our environment, and internalization of objects and tools therein, play an essential role in human cognition. This provides a rich basis for further analysis of how central aspects of presence, such as breaks in presence or the perceptual illusion of non-mediation, may work on a fundamental level. More general descriptions of such phenomena have advantages such as being easier to relate to new contexts and technologies, and opening up for additional inspiration and confirmation from other disciplines such as cognitive neuroscience. In addition to an account of general principles for brain function and a discussion about the concept of presence in light of these, this paper also relates this discussion to a number of previous accounts of presence, and to practical implications and applications for interaction design. (C) 2012 British Informatics Society Limited. All rights reserved.

Robotic wheelchairs with built-in assistive features, such as shared control, are an emerging means of providing independent mobility to severely disabled individuals. However, patients often struggle to build a mental model of their wheelchair's behaviour under different environmental conditions. Motivated by the desire to help users bridge this gap in perception, we propose a novel augmented reality system using a Microsoft Hololens as a head-mounted aid for wheelchair navigation. The system displays visual feedback to the wearer as a way of explaining the underlying dynamics of the wheelchair's shared controller and its predicted future states. To investigate the influence of different interface design options, a pilot study was also conducted. We evaluated the acceptance rate and learning curve of an immersive wheelchair training regime, revealing preliminary insights into the potential beneficial and adverse nature of different augmented reality cues for assistive navigation. In particular, we demonstrate that care should be taken in the presentation of information, with effort-reducing cues for augmented information acquisition (for example, a rear-view display) being the most appreciated.

Prototypes support the development of new technology by enabling to collect user feedback before full market readiness is achieved. However, this potential is often not fully exploited as physical prototypes are mainly used at more mature levels of technology development, after demonstrating full functionality. Using physical prototypes that are not fully functional at an early stage of technology maturity could lead to lower resource consumption as customer feedback could be incorporated faster and acceptance could be established. However, previous research has indicated differences in consumer attitudes toward technologies before and after users have experienced prototypes first-hand. Therefore, this paper investigates whether experiencing a functional physical prototype at an early stage of technology maturity affects consumer perception. For this purpose, we utilized the first flight of an air taxi in Europe since we were certain that the technology had not been seen in action or used before. We conducted two studies: Study 1, with 126 potential users in a within-subject design, and Study 2, with 539 potential users in a between-subject design. We did not detect significant effects on the participants' attitudes before and after watching an air taxi flight in person in either study. Overall, the data suggests that a live demonstration of a technology is not necessary to gain a comprehensive picture of peoples' attitudes toward it, which creates the possibility of examining the effects of more inexpensive technologies, such as virtual and augmented reality simulators in mobility research.

Objective: Distorted loudness perception is one of the main complaints of hearing aid users. Measuring loudness perception in the clinic as experienced in everyday listening situations is important for loudness-based hearing aid fitting. Little research has been done comparing loudness perception in the field and in the laboratory.Design: Participants rated the loudness in the field and in the laboratory of 36 driving actions. The field measurements were recorded with a 360 degrees camera and a tetrahedral microphone. The recorded stimuli, which are openly accessible, were presented in three conditions in the laboratory: 360 degrees video recordings with a head-mounted display, video recordings with a desktop monitor and audio-only.Study samples: Thirteen normal-hearing participants and 18 hearing-impaired participants with hearing aids.Results: The driving actions were rated as louder in the laboratory than in the field for the condition with a desktop monitor and for the audio-only condition. The less realistic a laboratory condition was, the more likely it was for a participant to rate a driving action as louder. The field-laboratory loudness differences were bigger for louder sounds.Conclusion: The results of this experiment indicate the importance of increasing realism and immersion when measuring loudness in the clinic.

Equal access to all software and digital content should be a reality in the Digital Era. This argument is something defended both by existing regulations, norms and standards, and also business organizations and governments. Despite this acknowledgement, the reality is still far from the desired equality. For certain groups of disabled or impaired citizens, such as the visually impaired, the existence of e-accessibility compliance represents an opportunity to integrate, in a more simple and straightforward manner, their societies. Despite the existing poor results on e-accessibility compliance, the mentioned citizens insist on using digital devices in their daily lives. Even though, in the last decade, multiple standards and regulations have been published towards indicating how to develop accessible digital user interfaces, there are still two major issues surrounding its implementation: the complexity and disparity of the documents containing the abovementioned norms, and also the lack of e-accessibility know-how by software experts. With this in mind, a proposal for an accessible software development model that encompasses e-accessibility incorporation as one of the development process activities has been presented. This model might represent a very interesting support tool for software development organizations and a novel resource for learning and training institutions to be able to improve their computer science and informatics students' skills on e-accessibility.

James Turrell's perceptual cells incorporate the neurophysiological apparatus as an active participant not only in the reception of projected moving-images, but also in the very production and transmission of virtual moving-images. Combining two perceptual phenomenathe stroboscopic effect and the Ganzfeld EffectTurrell's perceptual cells integrate the architecture of projection with the architecture of organic vision to produce a single networked extra-sensory medium. This paper performs a phenomenological analysis of Turrell's Light Reignfall (2011) perceptual cell, following its design, effects on the viewer, and cultural and material history. In the process, the paper situates the perceptual cell between the history of avant-garde cinema (what historians have called paracinema) and the history of perceptual psychology and parapsychology (what the author terms para-cinema). Between these two paracinemas, Turrell's perceptual cells activate the aesthetic potential of what the author discusses as edgeless projection.

As a healthier and more sustainable way of mobility, cycling has been advocated by literature and policy. However, current trends in bicyclist crash fatalities suggest deficiencies in current roadway design in protecting these vulnerable road users. The lack of cycling data is a common challenge for studying bicyclists' safety, behavior, and comfort levels under different design contexts. To understand bicyclists' behavioral and physiological responses in an efficient and safe way, this study uses a bicycle simulator within an immersive virtual environment (IVE). Off-the -shelf sensors are utilized to evaluate bicyclists' cycling performance (speed and lane position) and physiological responses (eye tracking and heart rate). Participants bike in a simulated virtual environment modeled to scale from a real-world street with a shared bike lane (sharrows) to evaluate how the introduction of a curbside bike lane and a protected bike lane with flexible delineators may impact perceptions of safety, as well as behavioral and psycho-physiological responses. Results from 50 participants (representing both genders and across a wide age range) show that the protected bike lane design received the highest perceived safety rating and exhibited the lowest average cycling speed. Furthermore, both the curbside bike lane and the protected bike lane scenarios show a less dispersed gaze distribution than the as-built sharrows scenario, reflecting a higher gaze focus among bicyclists on the biking task in the curbside bike lane and protected bike lane scenarios, compared to when bicyclists share right of way with vehicles. Additionally, heart rate change point results from the study suggest that creating dedicated zones for bicyclists (curbside bike lanes or protected bike lanes) has the potential to reduce bicyclists' stress levels. Female participants show a higher preference on the protected bike lane design and a lower perceived safety rating on the sharrows. These findings are from participants riding a bicycle simulator in an immersive virtual environment and inform, but do not fully reflect, bicycling in the real world.

Body ownership and agency are fundamental to self-consciousness. These bodily experiences have been intensively investigated using the rubber hand illusion, wherein participants perceive a fake hand as their own. After presentation of the illusion, the position of the participant's hand then shifts toward the location of the fake hand (proprioceptive drift). However, it remains controversial whether proprioceptive drift is able to provide an objective measurement of body ownership, and whether agency also affects drift. Using the virtual hand illusion (VHI), the current study examined the effects of body ownership and agency on proprioceptive drift, with three different visuo-motor tasks. Twenty healthy adults (29.6 +/- 9.2 years old) completed VH manipulations using their right hand under a 2 x 2 factorial design (active vs. passive manipulation, and congruent vs. incongruent virtual hand). Prior to and after VH manipulation, three different tasks were performed to assess proprioceptive drift, in which participants were unable to see their real hands. The effects of the VHI on proprioceptive drift were task-dependent. When participants were required to judge the position of their right hand using a ruler, or by reaching toward a visual target, both body ownership and agency modulated proprioceptive drift. Comparatively, when participants aligned both hands, drift was influenced by ownership but not agency. These results suggest that body ownership and agency might differentially modulate various body representations in the brain.

This work explores the effects of users' gender and social design features of AI under different task load conditions on human-like attributions, social impact, work performance and perceived workload, user experience, and various other measures in Human-AI Interaction (HAII). Users had to execute sorting and dispatch tasks in collaboration with a virtual cobot. The degree of social gestalt of the cobot was varied by the ability to make small talk (i.e., talkative vs. non-talkative cobot), and the task load was increased by adding a secondary task (i.e., high vs. low task load condition). Overall, the talkative cobot led to a more positive perception of the cobot and increased social qualities like sense of meaning and team membership compared to the non-talkative cobot. The following gender effect was particularly interesting. The talkative cobot had a buffering effect for women and a distraction conflict effect for men in high task load conditions. When interacting with the talkative robot, women find the high task condition less stressful. In contrast thereto, the talkative cobot was distracting for men in the high task load condition. Our results highlight that social design choices and interindividual differences influence a successful collaboration between humans and AI. The work also shows the added value of systematic XR-simulations for the investigation and design of human-centered HAIIs (eXtended AI approach).

The recent efforts aimed at providing neuroscientific explanations of how people perceive and experience architectural environments have largely justified the initial belief in the value of neuroscience for architecture. However, a systematic development of a coherent theoretical and experimental framework is missing. To investigate the neurophysiological reactions related to the appreciation of ambiances, we recorded the electroencephalographic (EEG) signals in an immersive virtual reality during the appreciation of interior designs. Such data have been analyzed according to the working hypothesis that appreciated environments involve embodied simulation mechanisms and circuits mediating approaching stimuli. EEG recordings of 12 healthy subjects have been performed during the perception of three-dimensional interiors that have been simulated in a CAVE system and judged according to dimensions of familiarity, novelty, comfort, pleasantness, arousal and presence. A correlation analysis on personal judgments returned that scores of novelty, pleasantness and comfort are positively correlated, while familiarity and novelty are in negative way. Statistical spectral maps reveal that pleasant, novel and comfortable interiors produce a de-synchronization of the mu rhythm over left sensorimotor areas. Interiors judged more pleasant and less familiar generate an activation of left frontal areas (theta and alpha bands), along an involvement of areas devoted to spatial navigation. An increase in comfort returns an enhancement of the theta frontal midline activity. Cerebral activations underlying appreciation of architecture could involve different mechanisms regulating corporeal, emotional and cognitive reactions. Therefore, it might be suggested that people's experience of architectural environments is intrinsically structured by the possibilities for action.

Background/purpose: Diagnosis of conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis, in the case of induration, involves palpating the infected area via hands and then selecting a ratings score. However, the score is determined based on the tester's experience and standards, making it subjective. To provide tactile feedback on the skin, we developed a prototype tactile feedback system to simulate skin wrinkles with PHANToM OMNI. Methods: To provide the user with tactile feedback on skin wrinkles, a visual and haptic Augmented Reality system was developed. First, a pair of stereo skin images obtained by a stereo camera generates a disparity map of skin wrinkles. Second, the generated disparity map is sent to an implemented tactile rendering algorithm that computes a reaction force according to the user's interaction with the skin image. Results: We first obtained a stereo image of skin wrinkles from the in vivo stereo imaging system, which has a baseline of 50.8 mu m, and obtained the disparity map with a graph cuts algorithm. The left image is displayed on the monitor to enable the user to recognize the location visually. The disparity map of the skin wrinkle image sends skin wrinkle information as a tactile response to the user through a haptic device. Conclusion: We successfully developed a tactile feedback system for virtual skin wrinkle simulation by means of a commercialized haptic device that provides the user with a single point of contact to feel the surface roughness of a virtual skin sample.

Objective: Existing reports suggest that males significantly outperform females in navigating 3-D virtual environments. Although researchers have recognized that this may be attributable to males and females possessing different spatial abilities, most work has attempted to reduce the gender gap by providing more training for females. In this paper, we explore using large displays to narrow the gender gap within these tasks. Background: While evaluating various interaction techniques, we found that large displays affording wider fields of view seemed to improve virtual navigation performance in general and, additionally, to narrow the gender gap that existed on standard desktop displays. Method: We conducted two experiments (32 and 22 participants) exploring the individual contributions of display and geometric fields of view to the observed effects as well as isolating factors explaining performance increases seen on the large displays. Results: We show that wider fields of view on large displays not only increase performance of all users on average but also benefit females to such a degree as to allow them to perform as well as males do. We further demonstrate that these benefits can be attributed to better optical flow cues offered by the large displays. Conclusion: These findings provide a significant contribution, including recommendations for the improved presentation of 3-D environments, backed by empirical data demonstrating performance benefits during navigation tasks. Application. Results can be used to design systems that narrow the gender gap in domains such as teleoperation and virtual environments for entertainment, virtual training, or information visualization.

A series of 3 studies was conducted to test free-modulus magnitude estimation as a measure of perceived presence in virtual environments (VEs) and to model the first- and second-order effects of 11 VE system parameters on perceived presence across 5 subtasks. Sequential experimentation techniques were used to build 4 empirical models using polynomial regression. An integrated empirical model of data combined across 2 experiments demonstrated that all significant factors had a positive effect on perceived presence. Three of these parameters field of view, sound, and head tracking - had almost 3 times as much influence on presence than the other 4 significant parameters, which were visual display resolution, texture mapping, stereopsis, and scene update rate. Sequential experimentation was an efficient tool for building empirical models of perceived presence, but the subjective nature of this phenomenon and individual differences made data bridging across sequential studies problematic. It was concluded that magnitude estimation is a useful measure of perceived presence, and the resulting polynomial regression models can be used to facilitate VE system design decisions. This research has broad application in the selection and design of VE system components and overall design of VE systems. Z8 0

Upper limb motor impairment (ULMI) rehabilitation is a long-term, demanding and challenging process to recover motor functionality. Children and adolescents may be limited in daily life activities due to reduced functions such as decreased joint movement or muscle weakness. Home-based therapy with Immersive Virtual Reality can offer greater accessibility, delivery and early rehabilitation to significantly optimise functional outcomes and quality of life. This feasibility study aimed to explore the perceptions and impacts of an immersive and interactive VR scenario suitable for ULMI rehabilitation for children at home. It was analysed using mixed methods (quantitative and qualitative) and from a multidirectional perspective (patients, clinicians and family members). Amongst the main results, it was found that IVR for ULMI home rehabilitation (1) is easy to learn and acceptable; (2) improves motor function; (3) reduces the difficulty in the reproduction of therapeutic movements; (4) is motivating and enjoyable and (5) improves quality of life. This study is the first study on the use of IVR applied to home rehabilitation of ULMI in children. These results suggested that similar outcomes may be possible with self-directed IVR home rehabilitation compared to face to face conventional rehabilitation, which can be costly to both the patient and the healthcare system, decreasing the length of stay at the hospital and treatment duration. It has also presented an innovative solution to the Covid-19 emergency where children could not receive their clinic therapy. Further research is recommended to understand better the mechanisms involved in physiotherapeutic recovery and how IVR rehabilitation helps to improve conventional treatments.Trial Registration Protocol ID NCT05272436. Release Date: 9th March 2022.

This study investigated perceptual disruptions in gaze-contingent multiresolutional displays (GCMRDs) due to delays in updating the center of highest resolution after an eye movement. GCMRDs can be used to save processing resources and transmission bandwidth in many types of single-user display applications, such as virtual reality, video-telephony, simulators, and remote piloting. The current study found that image update delays as late as 60 ms after an eye movement did not significantly increase the detectability of image blur and/or motion transients due to the update. This is good news for designers of GCMRDs, since 60 ms is ample time to update many GCMRDs after an eye movement without disrupting perception. The study also found that longer eye movements led to greater blur and/or transient detection due to moving the eyes further into the low-resolution periphery, effectively reducing the image resolution at fixation prior to the update. In GCMRD applications where longer saccades are more likely (e.g., displays with relatively large distances between objects), this problem could be overcome by increasing the size of the region of highest resolution.

Dexterous manipulation of hand plays a crucial role in daily life, industrial productivity, and research laboratory, etc. Evolution of humanoid robot and virtual training technique raise the demand of human machine interface with fusion of both sensing and feedback functions to realize the close loop interactions. Here, we present a modular glove which combines triboelectric sensor and pneumatic actuator for enabling multi-modal and multidimensional sensing and feedback. Owing to commonalities of materials and structural design, pneumatic actuator and triboelectric sensor can be seamlessly merged. The integration of fingertip module and finger module offers cutaneous and kinesthetic feedback with the corresponding sensing functions. The whole glove can perform sensing and actuation for most of the interactive activities, such as touching, twisting, grabbing, rubbing, etc. With the customized wearable signal processing and control system, the robotic hand manipulation and virtual training program were demonstrated to verify the capabilities of improving the tactile perception in different scenarios. In general, the proposed device with a minimalistic design and multi-modal sensing and feedback can improve the issue of missing or mismatch of tactile communication in robotic teleoperation, virtual training, and rehabilitation.

Head-mounted displays (HMDs) offer immersion and binocular disparity. This study investigated whether an HMD yields better object-alignment performance than a conventional monitor in virtual environments that are rich in pictorial depth cues. To determine the effects of immersion and disparity separately, three hardware setups were compared: 1) a conventional computer monitor, yielding low immersion, 2) an HMD with binocular-vision settings (HMD stereo), and 3) an HMD with the same image presented to both eyes (HMD mono). Two virtual environments were used: a street environment in which two cars had to be aligned (target distance of about 15 m) and an office environment in which two books had to be aligned (target distance of about 0.7 m, at which binocular depth cues were expected to be important). Twenty males (mean age = 21.2, SD age = 1.6) each completed 10 object-alignment trials for each of the six conditions. The results revealed no statistically significant differences in object-alignment performance between the three hardware setups. A self-report questionnaire showed that participants felt more involved in the virtual environment and experienced more oculomotor discomfort with the HMD than with the monitor.

Past research suggests that "situatedness", i.e. the context, as well as the social interaction that occurs within it, play an important role in cognitive processes such as learning and decision-making. Thus far, IT tools have been limited in the level and type of situatedness they facilitate. The advent of virtual worlds has changed this. Virtual worlds provide open, three-dimensional platforms for creating and designing real life-like spaces; they also allow for interaction between users in the form of "avatars" in that space. This research study focuses on virtual worlds as platforms for learning and decision-making. We propose a model that explains how individuals in a group learn and make decisions through a process that is influenced by the two unique characteristics of virtual worlds that enable situatedness: the facilitation for designing real life-like spaces, and the facilitation of rich many-to-many interactions. We draw on theories of situated cognition, social cognition, and flow to explicate the influence of these characteristics on the process of leaming and decision-making. Data was collected by means of a quasi-experiment in Second Life (SL). Results from this study extend and validate the predictions of situated theories of decision-making within the context of a virtual world environment and suggest guidelines for practitioners who wish to use such environments to support organizational learning and decision-making. Perhaps the most compelling of these is to focus on maximizing the immersion of the individual in the activity by stimulating his or her perceptions of others and activity-related cues in the environment. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Garment simulation technology is expected to help reduce consumers' apparel fit dissatisfaction in online shopping. However, the simulated garments must be accurate representations of real garments for consumers to accept this technology. The purpose of this study was to investigate users' evaluations of the fidelity and accuracy of three-dimensional (3D) garment simulation technology used in a virtual online shopping scenario. Ferwerda's Functional Realism Framework was used to examine garment simulation realism. Thirty-seven women participated in the study. Participants were scanned, and 3D virtual models were made from their scans. A set of pants (misses 2-20) was developed. These pants patterns were digitally input to the computer to develop virtual pants that were fit to the participants' virtual models. Each participant evaluated the virtual pants fit and the real pants fit in a simulated shopping experience. Participants evaluated fit at 13 critical areas using a seven-point scale and then explained their evaluations during an interview. The overall accuracy and fidelity of the virtual simulation technology was moderately good, but not to the extent that the participants could perform all important aspects of the online fit evaluation. The overall physical appearances of the virtual pants were similar to the real pants. The pants length and the waistband position were accurately represented; however, fabric wrinkles were not accurately represented in the virtual simulation. Garment and body shape relationships were not accurately represented due to technological limitations. This study revealed aspects of garment simulation technology that warrant further research and development.

The use of technologies in the classroom has become one of the main allies for university teachers in pedagogical innovation, especially during, and after the pandemic. Therefore, the main objective of this article is to investigate how different types of innovative technologies are most effective in increasing motivation among university students. For this purpose, the level of motivation for learning stimulated by different technologies used as pedagogical support is compared. A motivation focused instructional model was implemented in conjunction with technologies such as machine learning, augmented reality, additive manufacturing, smart mobile devices, Moodle platforms, interactive smart TVs, as well as traditional lectures. The motivation was quantified through an extensively validated questionnaire designed for this purpose. A non-experimental quantitative research approach was applied to collect, process, and analyze the research data. A three-stage experimental design was used. The questionnaire was administered to 540 engineering students. The data extracted showed significant differences between the different technologies studied, highlighting interactive television, machine learning, and augmented reality over other technologies, which serves as input for academic management to direct efforts, funds and teacher training in new tools to support the teaching process.

We propose a method that stimulates musical vibration (generated from and synchronized with musical signals), modulated by the direction and distance to the target, on both sides of a user's neck with Hapbeat, a necklace-type haptic device. We conducted three experiments to confirm that the proposed method can achieve both haptic navigation and enhance the music-listening experience. Experiment 1 consisted of conducting a questionnaire survey to examine the effect of stimulating musical vibrations. Experiment 2 evaluated the accuracy (deg) of users' ability to adjust their direction toward a target using the proposed method. Experiment 3 examined the ability of four different navigation methods by performing navigation tasks in a virtual environment. The results of the experiments showed that stimulating musical vibration enhanced the music-listening experience, and that the proposed method is able to provide sufficient information to guide the users: accuracy in identifying directions was about 20?, participants reached the target in all navigation tasks, and in about 80% of all trials participants reached the target using the shortest route. Furthermore, the proposed method succeeded in conveying distance information, and Hapbeat can be combined with conventional navigation methods without interfering with music listening.

The objective of this work was to better understand pedestrians' understanding, trust, comfort, and acceptance of autonomous vehicle (AV) external human-machine interfaces (eHMIs). A link between mechanical engineering (i.e., automotive engineering) and civil engineering (i.e., multimodal transportation systems) is necessary to understand the effectiveness of varying AV-to-human communication strategies. Using a within-subject experiment design, 47 participants interacted with AVs possessing one of four eHMIs in a virtual reality (VR) environment. We administered a Likert scale survey to measure participants' perceptions of the eHMIs and used ordinal logistic regressions to analyze the results. We also accounted for participants' gender and stated interest in AVs, novel contributions to this field of research. The presence of an eHMI was found to improve participants' perceptions of AVs. Although females generally reported higher levels of understanding, trust, comfort, and acceptance, males' scores increased more significantly with the introduction of an eHMI. Text eHMIs outperformed nontextual interfaces, with participants noting the best perceptions with the text eHMI located on the AV's grille. Participants' understanding and identification of right-of-way (ROW) were most improved by the eHMIs while trust and comfort were most impacted by the participants' stated interest in AVs. Acceptance had little response to the eHMIs or stated AV interest and gender had little impact in the statistical models. This research supports the development of a standard, uniform AV pedestrian communication strategy and strengthens the connection between humans and AVs. Z8 1

Background: Virtual reality (VR) simulators now have the potential to replace traditional methods of laparoscopic training. The aim of this study was to compare the VR simulator with the classical box trainer and determine whether one has advantages over the other. Methods: Twenty four novices were tested to determine their baseline laparoscopic skills and then randomized into the following three group: LapSim, box trainer, and no training (control). After 3 weekly training sessions lasting 30-min each, all subjects were reassessed. Assessment included motion analysis and error scores. Nonparametric tests were applied, and p<0.05 was deemed significant. Results: Both trained groups made significant improvements in all parameters measured (p<0.05). Compared to the controls, the box trainer group performed significantly better on most of the parameters, whereas the LapSim group performed significantly better on some parameters. There were no significant differences between the LapSim and box trainer groups. Conclusions: LapSim is effective in teaching skills that are transferable to a real laparoscopic task. However, there appear to be no substantial advantages of one system over the other.

Human-machine interfaces for capturing, conveying, and sharing tactile information across time and space hold immense potential for healthcare, augmented and virtual reality, human-robot collaboration, and skill development. To realize this potential, such interfaces should be wearable, unobtrusive, and scalable regarding both resolution and body coverage. Taking a step towards this vision, we present a textile-based wearable human-machine interface with integrated tactile sensors and vibrotactile haptic actuators that are digitally designed and rapidly fabricated. We leverage a digital embroidery machine to seamlessly embed piezoresistive force sensors and arrays of vibrotactile actuators into textiles in a customizable, scalable, and modular manner. We use this process to create gloves that can record, reproduce, and transfer tactile interactions. User studies investigate how people perceive the sensations reproduced by our gloves with integrated vibrotactile haptic actuators. To improve the effectiveness of tactile interaction transfer, we develop a machine-learning pipeline that adaptively models how each individual user reacts to haptic sensations and then optimizes haptic feedback parameters. Our interface showcases adaptive tactile interaction transfer through the implementation of three end-to-end systems: alleviating tactile occlusion, guiding people to perform physical skills, and enabling responsive robot teleoperation. Adaptive tactile interactions transfer across users, space, and time, via embroidered smart gloves is reported by the authors. The scalable fabrication and adaptive computation pipeline enable tactile occlusion alleviation, human skills transfer, and interactive teleoperation.

With the emergence of augmented and virtual-reality based information delivery technologies the gap between availability of communication devices for visually impaired people and sighted people is emerging. The current study describes a communication tool which provides a reading platform for visually impaired people by means of a haptic display. In this paper the development and human subject study based evaluation of an electromagnetic microactuator-array based virtual tactile display is presented. The actuator array is comprised of a 4 by 5 array of micro voice-coil actuators (tactors) providing vibrotactile stimulation on the user's fingertip. The size and performance of the actuators is evaluated against the thresholds of human tactile perception. It is demonstrated that a 2.65 mm (diameter) x 4 mm (height) generic tactor is suitable for practical applications in dynamic tactile displays. The maximum force of the actuator was 30 mN generated at current levels of 200 mA. At a stroke of 4.5 mm, the force is reduced to 10 mN. The peak force was generated at a displacement of 1.5 mm. A total of 10 alpha-numeric symbols were displayed to the users via dynamically changing the location of the vibrating point in a predefined sequence, thus creating a tactile perception of continuous curve. Users were asked to sketch out the perceived symbols. Each subject carried out three experiments. The first experiment exposed all subjects to ten different characters. Data obtained from human subject tests suggest that users perceive most shapes accurately, however the existence of jump discontinuities in the flow of presentation of the curves lowers recognition efficiency most likely due to loss of sensation of solid reference point. Characters containing two or more discontinuous lines such as 'X' were more difficult to recognize in comparison to those described with a single line such as 'P', or 'Z'. Analysis of the average character recognition rate from 10 volunteers concluded that any presented character was identified correctly in 7 out 10 tests. The second test included characters that were reused from the first experiment. Users had improved their character recognition performance as a consequence of repeated exposure and learning. A final set of experiments concluded that recognition of groups of characters, forming words, is the least efficient and requires further perfecting. Recommendations for improvements of the recognition rate are also included.

The advent of the Internet/World Wide Web (WWW) and its related technologies has created a new format of business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) commerce; for instance, virtual shopping on the Internet within the B2C domain. Such a concept of shopping requires a new paradigm of commerce environments. Forecasts suggest that a major portion of total commerce in the U.S. during the early part of the next decade will be via the Net/WWW. While the concerns of lack of security and privacy associated with the Net still prevail these may have more to do with users perceptions than with inadequate technological capabilities. Concurrently, however, we posit that the current electronic commerce (EC) systems are not user-oriented leading to less than dramatic growth in B2C, In a physical environment, consumers can touch and feel the products and freely communicate with sellers or their representatives about the products they want to buy. On the contrary, consumers in an EC environment find it difficult to deal with the inherent nature of virtuality in their interaction. This is especially true in a poorly designed EC environment where users might be uncomfortable with the uncertainty and ambiguity caused by lack of interaction with products and sellers. For simple products this may not be a barrier whereas for complex products this may create a significant barrier. Very few theoretical frameworks exist in the EC literature that can effectively address the issue of design of Web-based EC application systems for this new form of cyber commerce environment and make provisions to deal with the heterogeneous nature of both products and consumers. In this study, we propose a conceptual framework to address such an issue by drawing on insights from contingency research in information systems design and media choice behavior. The basic theme of this model, called the congruence model, is that for an EC systems environment to have favorable impact on a consumer, the system must have a good fit with both the products/services that are sold/provided and the users it supports. An initial validity of this conceptual framework is demonstrated by working with a few product and user types. A detailed evaluation of eight different commercial web sites dealing with four different product categories provides additional support to the proposed theory. We expect our conceptual model to spur significant future research on this important phenomenon.

A specific desire to find new training methods arose from the new fields called ''Minimal Invasive Surgery''. With the technical advance modern video arthroscopy became the standard procedure in the OR's. Holding the optical system with the video camera in one hand, watching the operation field on the monitor, the other hand was free to guide, e.g., a probe. As arthroscopy became a more common procedure it became obvious that some sort of special training was necessary to guarantee a certain level of qualification of the surgeons. Therefore a hospital in Frankfurt approached the Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics to develop a training system for arthroscopy based on VR techniques. At least the main drawback of the developed simulator is the missing of haptic perception, especially of force feedback. In cooperation with the Department of Electro-Mechanical Construction at the Darmstadt Technical University we have designed and build a haptic display for the VR arthroscopy training simulator. In parallel we developed a concept for the integration of the haptic display in a configurable way.

Tactile perception of softness serves a critical role in the survival, well-being, and social interaction among various species, including humans. This perception informs activities from food selection in animals to medical palpation for disease detection in humans. Despite its fundamental importance, a comprehensive understanding of how softness is neurologically and cognitively processed remains elusive. Previous research has demonstrated that the somatosensory system leverages both cutaneous and kinesthetic cues for the sensation of softness. Factors such as contact area, depth, and force play a particularly critical role in sensations experienced at the fingertips. Yet, existing haptic technologies designed to explore this phenomenon are limited, as they often couple force and contact area, failing to provide a real -world experience of softness perception. Our research introduces the softness -rendering interface (SORI), a haptic softness display designed to bridge this knowledge gap. Unlike its predecessors, SORI has the unique ability to decouple contact area and force, thereby allowing for a quantitative representation of softness sensations at the fingertips. Furthermore, SORI incorporates individual physical fingertip properties and model -based softness cue estimation and mapping to provide a highly personalized experience. Utilizing this method, SORI quantitatively replicates the sensation of softness on stationary, dynamic, homogeneous, and heterogeneous surfaces. We demonstrate that SORI accurately renders the surfaces of both virtual and daily objects, thereby presenting opportunities across a range of fields, from teleoperation to medical technology. Finally, our proposed method and SORI will expedite psychological and neuroscience research to unlock the nature of softness perception.

The explanation of certain 3D concepts is based on 2D drawings. These drawings should contain certain depth cues, such as perspective and overlapping. Until recently, parallax has not been used as a depth cue. Nevertheless, new technologies allow it to be incorporated. This forms the background to our study of the design of interactive educational resources and stereoscopic graphics. The results obtained demonstrate that (1) the use of parallax cues improves the interpretation of the figures and (2) that the assistance they afford is most appreciated by the students with less highly developed spatial perception. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

In this study, we describe the implementation and evaluation of an experiment with Augmented Reality (AR) technology in the visualization of 3D models and the presentation of architectural projects by students of architecture and building engineering. The proposal is based on the premise that the technology used in AR, such as mobile devices, is familiar to the student. When used in a collaborative manner, the technology is able to achieve a greater level of direct engagement with the proposed content, thereby improving academic outcomes. The objective was to assess the feasibility of using AR on mobile devices in educational environments and to investigate the relationship between the usability of the tool, student participation, and the improvement in academic performance after using AR. The validation was performed through a case study in which students were able to experience a virtual construction process overlapped onto real environments. Results were obtained by students' pre-tests and post-tests. In line with our assumptions, the use of mobile devices in the classroom is highly correlated with motivation, and there is a significant correlation with academic achievement. However, the difficulty of using and generating content is a complex factor that suggests difficulty when implementing more complicated models. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

The way-finding behaviour and response during a fire emergency in a virtual environment (VE) was experimentally investigated. Forty participants, divided into two groups, were required to find the emergency exit as soon as possible in a virtual hotel building because of a fire escape demand under condition 1 (VE without virtual fire, control group) and condition 2 (VE with virtual fire, treatment group). Compared to the control group, the treatment group induced significantly higher skin conductivity and heart rate, experienced more stress, took longer time to notice the evacuation signs, had quicker visual search and had a longer escape time to find the exit. These results indicated that the treatment condition induced higher physiological and psychological stress, and had influenced the escape behaviour compared to the control group. In practice, fire evacuation education and fire evacuation system design should consider the response characteristics in a fire emergency. Practitioner Summary: This article studied people's way-finding behaviour and response during a fire emergency in a virtual environment. People in fire emergency experienced higher physiological and psychological stress, had different perception style, accordingly had different behaviour patterns and poorer way-finding performance, as compared with people in normal condition. Z8 3

This paper addresses the important question of how to design a video teleconferencing setup to increase the experience of spatial and social presence. Traditional video teleconferencing setups are lacking in presenting the nonverbal behaviors that humans express in face-to-face communication, which results in decrease in presence-experience. In order to address this issue, we first present a conceptual framework of presence for video teleconferencing. We introduce a modern presence concept called real virtuality and propose a new way of achieving this based on body or artifact actions to increase the feeling of presence, and we named this concept presence through actions. Using this new concept, we present the design of a novel action-augmented real virtuality prototype that considers the challenges related to the design of an action prototype, action embodiment, and face representation. Our action prototype is a telepresence mechatronic robot (TEBoT), and action embodiment is through a head-mounted display (HMD). The face representation solves the problem of face occlusion introduced by the HMD. The novel combination of HMD, TEBoT, and face representation algorithm has been tested in a real video teleconferencing scenario for its ability to solve the challenges related to spatial and social presence. We have performed a user study where the invited participants were requested to experience our novel setup and to compare it with a traditional video teleconferencing setup. The results show that the action capabilities not only increase the feeling of spatial presence but also increase the feeling of social presence of a remote person among local collaborators.

In this paper, we presented a human-robot collaborative mixed reality application - Beaux Arts Ball 4.0, in which a real-time interactive hybrid and physical architectural environment were designed and experienced through the tools and techniques ofmixed reality, cypher-physical, teleoperation, telepresence, and automation. The application engaged the user and observer in a continuous loop of architectural transformation during the experience, where every type of sensory was blurred between physical and digital perception.

Purpose Health and safety training via immersive virtual reality (VR) in the construction sector is still limited to few early adopters despite the benefits it could provide in terms of training effectiveness. To foster its adoption, in this work, the authors address the lack of an organized asset of digital contents dedicated to the production of VR site scenarios that emerged as one of the most limiting factors for the implementation of building information modeling (BIM) and VR for construction workers' safety training. To improve this critically time-consuming process, a dedicated site object library is proposed. Design/methodology/approach The development of the site object library for the production of BIM-based VR safety training experiences followed a four-step process: definition of the object list and categories from the analysis of heterogeneous knowledge sources - construction sectors' regulations, case studies and site scenarios' imagery; definition of the object requirements (e.g. information, graphics, sounds, animations and more); design of an object information sheet as a library implementation support tool; and library implementation and validation via collaborative VR sessions. Findings This work provides the definition of a structured library of construction site objects dedicated to the production of VR scenarios for safety training comprising 168 items, implemented and validated. Originality/value The research contributes to facilitate and standardize the time-consuming contents' production and modeling process of site scenarios for VR safety training, addressing the lack of a dedicated site object library. Furthermore, the novel library framework could serve as a base for future extensions dedicated to other applications of VR site simulations (e.g. constructability analysis).

To effectively use a virtual environment (VE) for applications such as training and design evaluation, a good sense of orientation is needed in the VE. "Natural" human geographical orientation, when moving around in the world, relies on visual as well as proprioceptive feedback. However, the present navigation metaphors that are used to move around in the VE often lack proprioceptive feedback. To investigate the possible consequences this may have, an experiment was conducted on the relative contributions of visual and proprioceptive feedback on path integration in VE. Subjects were immersed in a virtual forest and were asked to turn specific angles under different combinations of visual, vestibular, and kinesthetic feedback (pure visual, visual plus vestibular, visual plus vestibular plus kinesthetic, pure vestibular, and vestibular plus kinesthetic). Furthermore, two visual conditions with different visual flows were tested: normal visual flow and decreased visual flow provided by a 60% zoom. Results show that kinesthetic feedback provides the most reliable and accurate source of information to use for path integration, indicating the benefits of incorporating this kind of feedback in navigation metaphors. Orientation based on visual flow alone is most inaccurate and unreliable. In all conditions, subjects overestimated their turning speed and subsequently didn't turn far enough. Both the absolute errors and the variation in path integration increase with the length of the path.

Background: Research has supported the cost-effectiveness of cognitive training tools enhanced by information and communication technologies (ICT) in several populations, including individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and age-related cognitive decline. The implementation of ICTs in this population, however, is sometimes challenging to their cognitive and age characteristics. Ultimately, this might compromise the effectiveness of ICT-enhanced therapies in this population. The aim of this study is to test the usability and acceptability of a Eu(r)opean project prototype for elderly care, in an attempt to explore the ICT design needs of users with MCI. Methods: Participants were 28 individuals aged 58-95 years and with a diagnosis of MCI. Results: The results showed a low perception of peripheral elements and the need to place main interaction elements in the centre of the screen. The correlation between the general level of autonomy (daily life activities) and the ICT autonomy level was significant and positive. The speed of audio help had a significant impact on performance. Conclusion: The present work contributes to the literature on ICT usability needs of users with MCI. Some usability recommendations for designing interfaces for this type of user are provided in the text. Z8 0

Attention is one of the fundamental elements of effective learning. The design of learning environments often consists of a blend of visual stimuli. Investigating the effect of visual stimuli types on the attention of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is important for the theoretical understanding of attention. This study explores the effect of social and nonsocial visual stimuli on the attention of children with ASD and typically developing (TD) children in a simulated virtual classroom. Forty-six participants (ASD = 20, TD = 26) took part in a series of attention tests, in which social and nonsocial visual stimuli were used as target stimuli. We examined four eye-gaze measures: time to first fixate, first fixation duration, average fixation duration, and the sum of fixation count. The results show that social and nonsocial stimuli do not affect the attention of ASD and TD children. However, TD children pay significantly greater attention to target stimuli than children with ASD. These findings emphasize the strengths of children with ASD during attention tasks and the potential for the use of eye-gaze measures to identify attention impairment in children with ASD. This study thus recommends an investigation methodology for on-task attention assessment in a learning environment.

Background: The construction, chemical, aviation, medical, and health care industries have used serious games for safety training. To our knowledge, serious games have not been developed focusing on behavioral change to improve safety through the use of verbal commands and instilling players with heightened awareness of their spatial proximity to other people in their surroundings. Objective: We aimed to develop a theory-driven serious game for improving safety behavior using verbal commands and validate the implementation of the theoretical frameworks used for game development. The game developed, KitchenSpeak, was a first -person character (FPC) game where users respond to in -game prompts to use loud verbal commands when they are approaching another employee's blind spot. Methods: In addition to using the SERES framework in guiding the general game design and development, and the Reflection, Engagement, Choice, Information, Play, Exposition (RECIPE) framework to inform the design of the game mechanics, we also applied gestalt laws of perception for graphic design to guide the design of the game's user interface. We conducted 2 evaluative tests (alpha and beta) to collect end user and stakeholder feedback on the implementation of the theoretical frameworks, as well as to collect relevant information for full-scale implementation and a future validation study. Results: The alpha and beta tests had 8 and 40 participants, respectively. The alpha test results revealed that the theoretical frameworks were adequately applied; however, suggestions were also made to modify and improve the game. The beta test results suggested further improvements for the game design and found no differences in the perception of ease of play between participants with and without previous FPC gaming experience (P=.47; Kruskal-Wallis). Results suggested that the game met its design and theoretical requirements, and it would be easily playable by all players regardless of their previous experience in FPC games. Conclusions: A theory-driven and evidence-based FPC game titled KitchenSpeak was developed to teach the use of kitchen-speak terms in commercial kitchens. Evaluative tests were conducted to validate the implementation of the theoretical frameworks. Our main contributions are creating and validating game -based training to improve behavioral-based safety in the workplace and the incorporation of gestalt laws of perception for graphic design in the game's user interface. Z8 0

Using virtual reality (VR), we examined the barriers to and facilitators of functioning outdoors in persons with dementia (PwD) and investigated the generalizability of findings in VR to the real world. An existing town center was modeled in VR. PwD took part in both real- world and VR walks. Based on the results, the model was redesigned and then tested again. Performance on the walks improved, and potentially beneficial adaptations to outdoor environments were identified, but limitations of VR as a representation of the real world were also identified. We conclude that VR models, together with a rigorous behavioral testing method, can be a useful tool for the evaluation of outdoor environments and for identifying improvements for PwD.

IntroductionProspective memory (PM) impairments have been extensively documented in individuals with Parkinson's disease associated with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) and in those with healthy aging. Considering how PM failure decreases individuals' quality of life and functional independence in the activities of daily living, training to enhance this ability could be a prior target of intervention.ObjectiveHere, we aimed to present the study protocol and preliminary results of a novel immersive virtual reality (IVR) and telemedicine-based (TM) cognitive intervention focused on executive abilities (i.e., planning, shifting, and updating) to improve PM functioning in PD-MCI patients and healthy elderly individuals.MethodsOutcome measures, collected before, immediately after and 2 months after the intervention, included: (1) pre-post training changes in objective cognitive functioning, evaluated with tests assessing executive functions and PM; (2) pre-post training changes in subjective perception of memory functioning, psychiatric symptoms, autonomy in daily living and quality of life, evaluated using the appropriate scales; (3) usability, feasibility and users' compliance with the proposed IVR and telemedicine program. The efficacy of this intervention compared to an active control condition is currently being evaluated in a randomized, double-blind controlled trial, which will be conducted on 30 eligible PD-MCI patients and 30 older adults.ResultsPreliminary results concerning between-group comparisons of demographic and neuropsychological screening data show a good balance among the intervention groups considered in this study. The results also suggest good levels of usability, feasibility and acceptability, thus supporting the notion that our intervention can be used to promote cognitive functioning, even in people with cognitive decline.ConclusionConsidering the relatively low costs and easy accessibility to this program, it could prove valuable in primary prevention initiatives and early cognitive rehabilitation for dementia risk reduction.

The sense of touch is a fundamental aspect of our everyday Nothing now can (and hopefully will not have to) substitute for the beneficial effects of real skin-to-skin touch. However, there are conditions where simulated touch might, at least temporarily, be a resource for compensating the lack of real touch (e.g. under situations of social isolation) or to contribute to our knowledge of tactile perception and its effects on people. It is therefore not surprising that the study of touch within virtual reality (VR) applications is attracting growing interest among researchers. The visual aspects of VR, in terms of graphic design and interactions, are certainly well know, and progress in this field is running very fast. However, less knowledge is present in the field of simulated touch, especially under conditions of social interactions. Nevertheless, the possibility to provide the sense of touch to human users is central for the future progress and even acceptance of VR tools and simulated environments. This work aims to present an overview regarding the haptic technology available for the investigation of social touch in VR. This review is composed of two parts. In the first section we provide a brief introduction to the tactile technologies available, highlighting for each device its strengths and limitations. The second part presents a few examples of experimental studies in which these devices were used inside immersive VR experiences, to investigate the contribution of touch to social interactions. The discussion addresses the future development of realistic haptic technologies, as well the experimental hypotheses still to be tested in social psychology and neuroscience.

With the development of electric motor vehicles and autonomous driving systems, the domain of automotive sound design addresses new issues, and is now concerned by creating suitable and pleasant soundscapes inside the vehicle to ensure comfort and safety for the users. In particular, the integration of informative, alerting and intuitive auditory feedback becomes essential. For instance, previous studies proposed relevant sonification strategies to convey the information about the vehicle dynamics in electric cars. However, while the sound feedback is informative per se, users reported its lack of blending with the surrounding natural sound field of the vehicle and the artificial character of the sound itself. The challenge is therefore to integrate such sound feedbacks in the car interior soundscape in natural way by adjusting both timbre and spatial parameters. In this research, we propose an experimental setup to investigate perceptual integration of synthesized and environmental sound streams spatialized in car cockpit. By combining synchronized 3D acoustic field measurements and 3D video recordings at seat viewpoint, we constructed immersive audiovisual environments in the laboratory to get close to ecologically valid driving situations while avoiding time consuming in-situ experiments. The proposed setup also allowed to virtually control sound sources (both their timbre and location) in the car interior and to study the spatial perception of the overall designed soundscape before vehicle integration. While we here address the case of car cockpit, this approach may be used for different contexts in which sounds need to be spatially integrated in natural soundscapes.

Video games can be understood as a series of interesting decisions, and the game controllers are key to making those decisions. Advances in gaming technology have encouraged the development of natural user interfaces (NUIs), which should provide a superior user experience as players are able to use preexisting mental models from physical interaction rather than learning an abstract mapping schema. However, anecdotal and previous empirical research suggest the opposite-gamers prefer more familiar-albeit-abstract gamepad controllers. Because the exact nature and mechanism of this preference remains open for investigation, we suggest two rivaling mechanisms related to novelty and learning. Comparing self-identified gamer regarding their last gamepad and NUIs experience in an online quasi-experimental survey design (N = 248), participants in the current study had less experience using NUIs, resulting in lower self-efficacy and enjoyment. Learning effects (via experience with a controller), rather than novelty effects (via exposure to a unique controller), seem to be the most relevant mechanism to understanding how controllers impact game enjoyment. However, both controller novelty and learning effects were significant mediators of the link between controller type and perceived controller naturalness. Our data suggest that perceptions of "natural" do not only depend on technological features of a user interface, but also on the user's previous experiences with the device. As such, users need to build robust mental models of the controllers through experience, which over time become more natural with increasing proficiency.

The discrete vectorial Dahl model, proposed by Hayward and Armstrong, is appropriate for haptic friction rendering using a force-feedback interface due to its modeling power of complex frictional behaviors and relatively simple discrete formula favorable for real-time computation. The model has a few parameters that determine the subjective sensations of virtual surface friction, but their perceptual roles have not been clarified. T his p aper p resents t he d esign and results of a perceptual experiment that aimed to quantify the effects of the discrete vectorial Dahl model parameters in the perceived magnitude of friction. It was observed that the maximum magnitude of the sliding friction force has the most critical effect on friction perception. We also fit a nonlinear function between the perceptual magnitude of friction and the maximum sliding friction force in the form of Steven's power law. This function serves as a psychophysical magnitude function that enables haptic application designers to understand the perceptual strength of virtual friction rendering implemented using the Dahl model.

Immersive communications rely on smart perception based on diversified and augmented sensing and feedback technologies. However, the increasing of functional components also raises the issue of increased system complexity. Here, we propose a modular soft glove with multimodal sensing and feedback functions by exploring and utilizing the multiple properties of glove materials. With a single design of basic structure, the main functional unit possesses triboelectric-based sensing of static and dynamic contact, vibration, strain, and pneumatic actuation. Additionally, the same unit is also capable of offering pneumatic tactile haptic feedback and electroresistive thermal haptic feedback. Together with a machine learning algorithm, the proposed glove not only performs real-time detection of dexterous hand motion and direct feedback but also realizes intelligent object recognition and augmented feedback, which significantly enhance the communication and perception of more comprehensive information. In general, this glove utilizes a facile designed sensing and feedback device to achieve dual-way and multimodal communication among humans, machines, and the virtual world via smart perceptions.

Children's social networks are filled with real and imagined relationship partners, and advances in artificial intelligence (AI) have generated a host of possible relationships with virtual characters. However, little is known about how children conceptualize virtual characters, and how they might be viewed as friendship partners. These studies were designed to develop a paradigm for investigating children's concepts of virtual characters. In Study 1, items were developed that could be used in a task with children. Adults (N = 144) attributed a range of properties (biological, psychological, and social) to four child agents: a real child, a child on a video chat program, an AI child, and a doll. Items that captured adult concepts were used in a task with children (N = 30; aged 5 to 8 years old). This task was designed to: (a) control for idiosyncratic features of the four child agents, (b) enable the expression of uncertainty, and (c) assess concepts of reciprocal relationships. In Study 1, adults did not differentiate between the AI child and the doll on the social property; however, a subset of adults favored the AI child over the doll for sharing secrets. In Study 2, a subset of children indicated a preference for the doll over the AI child on opportunities for reciprocal love and companionship. These findings suggest that virtual characters afford select social opportunities that may differ between adults and children, raising further questions as to the design goals for virtual characters and the functions they serve in our day-to-day lives.

Virtual reality (VR) can be a useful tool for conducting consumer behavior experiments. The aim of this research was to examine whether people standing in front of a supermarket shelf make similar decisions and process similar information as those in front of a shelf in a VR shop. In Study 1, participants were asked to select a cereal from among 33 commercially available types of cereals placed on a shelf. One group performed the task in front of a real shelf, while the other performed it in VR. Eye-tracking data were collected for both groups. No statistically significant differences were observed in the selection of the cereals by the two groups in the two conditions. Eye-tracking data only revealed few differences in the information-seeking behavior. In Study 2, results observed using real products were replicated in VR. Participants were asked to walk through a virtual supermarket and select either a healthy cereal (healthy condition) or a tasty cereal (hedonic condition). Results showed that participants in the healthy condition paid more attention to the nutrition information than those in the hedonic condition. The results of these two experiments suggest that a VR condition wherein participants can walk around and behave as in the real world is a useful tool for conducting experiments related to food decisions.

To create a truly accessible and inclusive society, we need to take the more than 2.2 billion people with vision impairments worldwide into account when we design our cities, buildings, and everyday objects. This requires sympathy and empathy, as well as a certain level of understanding of the impact of vision impairments on perception. In this study, we explore the potential of an extended version of our vision-impairment simulation system XREye to increase sympathy and empathy and evaluate its educational value in an expert study with 56 educators and education students. We include data from a previous study in related work on sympathy and empathy as a baseline for comparison with our data. Our results show increased sympathy and empathy after experiencing XREye and positive feedback regarding its educational value. Hence, we believe that vision-impairment simulations, such as XREye, have merit to be used for educational purposes in order to increase awareness for the challenges people with vision impairments face in their everyday lives.

Due to the additive light model employed by current optical see-through head-mounted displays (OST-HMDs), the perceived contrast of displayed imagery is reduced with increased environment luminance, often to the point where it becomes difficult for the user to accurately distinguish the presence of visual imagery. While existing contrast models, such as Weber contrast and Michelson contrast, can be used to predict when the observer will experience difficulty distinguishing and interpreting stimuli on traditional displays, these models must be adapted for use with additive displays. In this paper, we present a simplified model of luminance contrast for optical see-through displays derived from Michelson's contrast equation and demonstrate two applications of the model: informing design decisions involving the color of virtual imagery and optimizing environment light attenuation through the use of neutral density filters.

Smart wearable tactile systems, designed to deliver different types of touch feedback on human skin, can significantly improve engagement through diverse actuation patterns in virtual or augmented reality environments. Here, a perpendicularly nested auxetic wearable haptic interface is reported for orthotropically decoupled multimodal actuation (WHOA), capable of producing diverse tactile feedback modes with 3D sensory perception. WHOA incorporates shape memory alloy wires that are intricately knotted into an auxetic structure oriented along orthotropic dual axes. Its perpendicularly nested auxetic structure enables orthotropic actuation, allowing independent expansion and contraction along both x and y-axes, as confirmed by force-strain and displacement-time performance tests. Additionally, the perylene coating provides orthogonal electrical isolation to WHOA, allowing for stripe-specific localized actuation and enabling multiple tactile feedback modes. As an orthotropic wearable haptic interface, WHOA distinguishes between x-axis and y-axis directions and ultimately delivers multi-dimensional information regarding movements in 3D space through tactile feedback. As a result, when worn on the foot or arm, WHOA naturally delivers spatiotemporal tactile information to the user, facilitating navigation and teleoperation with 3D sensory perception.

Background: With the advancements in the dental health care industry, the demand for dental technicians has increased. Dental technicians should be thoroughly assessed and trained in practical skills and pass professional certification examinations to ensure that they are competent to work closely with dentists. Unfortunately, such training courses and tests are in short supply worldwide. The use of virtual simulation technology can help solve these problems. Objective: This study presents a new strategic framework design for a certified dental technician practical examination called as the certified Objective Manipulative Skill Examination of Dental Technicians (OMEDT), which is based on the Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE). We present the development and validation of the OMEDT system, a new virtual simulated training system, to meet the demands of the OMEDT framework. The combination of OMEDT and the OMEDT system can solve the complex problems encountered in the certified dental technician practical examination with excellent efficiency, high quality, and low cost. Methods: The OMEDT framework design was constructed according to the OSCE guide and the Chinese vocational skill standards for dental technicians. To develop the OMEDT system, we organized a new framework based on the virtual learning network platform, the haptic feedback system, and the real-time dental training and evaluation system. The effectiveness evaluation of the OMEDT system was divided into 2 phases: in the first phase, 36 students were recruited to use the test module to finish the task and their performance data were collected and analyzed; and in the second phase, a questionnaire was administered to 30 students who used the system for their studies and graduation exams. Results: The OMEDT and the corresponding skill training virtual simulation OMEDT system were developed, and preliminary user evaluation was performed to assess their effectiveness and usefulness. The OMEDT system was found to improve students' practical skills by training with the evaluation results. In addition, several key research topics were explored, including the effects of positive feedback of the knowledge of results on the improvement of the students' skill level and the common sense transformation of educators in the virtual simulation technology environment. Conclusions: The development of OMEDT and the OMEDT system has been completed and their effectiveness has been verified.

This article addresses the question of synthesis and control of sound attributes from a perceptual point of view. We focused on an attribute related to the general concept of motion evoked by sounds. To investigate this concept, we tested 40 monophonic abstract sounds on listeners via a questionnaire and drawings, using a parametrized custom interface. This original procedure, which was defined with synthesis and control perspectives in mind, provides an alternative means of determining intuitive control parameters for synthesizing sounds evoking motion. Results showed that three main shape categories (linear, with regular oscillations, and with circular oscillations) and three types of direction (rising, descending, and horizontal) were distinguished by the listeners. In addition, the subjects were able to perceive the low-frequency oscillations (below 8 Hz) quite accurately. Three size categories (small, medium, and large) and three levels of randomness (none, low amplitude irregularities, and high amplitude irregularities) and speed (constant speed and speeds showing medium and large variations) were also observed in our analyses of the participants' drawings. We further performed a perceptual test to confirm the relevance of the contribution of some variables with synthesized sounds combined with visual trajectories. Based on these results, a general typology of evoked motion was drawn up and an intuitive control strategy was designed, based on a symbolic representation of continuous trajectories (provided by devices such as motion capture systems, pen tablets, etc.). These generic tools could be used in a wide range of applications such as sound design, virtual reality, sonification, and music.

The utilization of head-mounted displays (HMDs) in high-end applications such as medical, engineering, and scientific visualization necessitates that the position of objects be rendered accurately and precisely. Accuracy and precision of rendered depth for near-field visualization were measured in a custom-designed bench prototype HMD. Experimental results were compared to theoretical predictions established from a computational model for rendering and presenting virtual images by Robinett and Rolland (1992). Such a theoretical model provided the necessary graphics transformations required so that rendered virtual objects be perceived at the rendered depth in binocular HMDs, Three object shapes of various sizes were investigated under two methodologies: the method of constant stimuli modified for random size presentation and the method of adjustments, Results show a 2 mm and an 8 mm performance for the accuracy and the precision of rendered depth in HMDs, respectively, Results of the assessment of rendered depth in HMDs for near-field visualization support employing the method of adjustments over the method of constant stimuli whether or not the method of constant stimuli is modified for random size presentation.

To understand current practice and explore the potential for more comprehensive evaluations of 3D immersive sketching, drawing, and painting, we present a survey of evaluation methodologies used in existing 3D sketching research, a breakdown and discussion of important phases (sub-tasks) in the 3D sketching process, and a framework that suggests how these factors can inform evaluation strategies in future 3D sketching research. Existing evaluations identified in the survey are organized and discussed within three high-level categories: 1) evaluating the 3D sketching activity, 2) evaluating 3D sketching tools, and 3) evaluating 3D sketching artifacts. The new framework suggests targeting evaluations to one or more of these categories and identifying relevant user populations. In addition, building upon the discussion of the different phases of the 3D sketching process, the framework suggests to evaluate relevant sketching tasks, which may range from low-level perception and hand movements to high-level conceptual design. Finally, we discuss limitations and challenges that arise when evaluating 3D sketching, including a lack of standardization of evaluation methods and multiple, potentially conflicting, ways to evaluate the same task and user interface usability; we also identify opportunities for more holistic evaluations. We hope the results can contribute to accelerating research in this domain and, ultimately, broad adoption of immersive sketching systems.

Objective. This exploratory study assessed the possible effectiveness of hemiparetic upper extremity training in subjects with chronic stroke with computer instrumentation (haptic force feedback) and 3-dimensional visualization applied to computer games, as well as to evaluate concurrent computer-assisted assessment of the kinematics of movements and test whether any improvement detected in the computer environment was reflected in activities of daily living (ADLs). Methods. A single-subject repeated-measures experimental design (AB) was used. After baseline testing, 5 patients were assigned to the therapy 3 times a week for 45 min for 5 weeks. Velocity, time needed to reach, and hand path ratio (reflecting superfluous movements) were the outcome measures, along with the Assessment of Motor and Process Skills and the Box and Block test. The follow-up phase (C) occurred 12 weeks later. Results. Improvements were noted in velocity, time, and hand path ratio. One patient showed improvement in occupational performance in ADLs. Conclusions. The application of this strategy of using virtual reality (VR) technologies may be useful in assessing and training stroke patients. The results of this study must be reproduced in further studies. The VR systems can be placed in homes or other nonclinical settings.

The primary purpose of medical image visualization is to improve patient outcomes by facilitating the inspection, analysis, and interpretation of patient data. This is only possible if the users' perceptual and cognitive limitations are taken into account during every step of design, implementation, and evaluation of interactive displays. Visualization of medical images, if executed effectively and efficiently, can empower physicians to explore patient data rapidly and accurately with minimal cognitive effort. This article describes a specific case study in biomedical visualization system design and evaluation, which is the visualization of MR angiography images for planning arteriovenous malformation (AVM) interventions. The success of an AVM intervention greatly depends on the surgeon gaining a full understanding of the anatomy of the malformation and its surrounding structures. Accordingly, the purpose of this study was to investigate the usability of visualization modalities involving contour enhancement and stereopsis in the identification and localization of vascular structures using objective user studies. Our preliminary results indicate that contour enhancement, particularly when combined with stereopsis, results in improved performance enhancement of the perception of connectivity and relative depth between different structures.

Immersive technologies (ImTs) have emerged as a viable pathway to address poor occupational safety and health (OSH) performance through training and education of workers. This study aimed to gain a holistic view of the applications of ImTs for OSH training and education. A review of the application of ImTs for OSH training and education is conducted using the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analysis (PRISMA) approach and bibliometric analysis. This resulted in the evaluation of 67 relevant journal articles collected from Scopus, Web of Science, and Engineering Village. The review revealed that ImTs have been applied for OSH training and education in various industries including transportation, construction, mining, and healthcare. It was also revealed that the OSH hazards addressed by ImT-based training and education include but are not limited to fire, fall, electrical and chemical hazards in order to prevent or reduce injuries, illnesses and fatalities. In addition, it was revealed that one of the benefits of ImTs for OSH training and education is better retention of concepts when compared to conventional training and education. Challenges associated with the use of ImTs for OSH training and education include insufficient display brightness for users to effectively see virtual objects in a brightly luminated environment. Among the recommendations for future work is research into how to develop effective communication methods between trainers and trainees immersed in a virtual environment for trainers to fully understand the difficulties trainees experience in operating the developed ImT-based platform and provide solutions to such difficulties.

Since the coining of the term 'serious games' by Clark Abt, practitioners in fields such as education, the military, and medical science, as well as researchers from other disciplines, have investigated with interest game mechanics and the dynamics of games in non-gaming applications. Gaming has extended beyond what was initially its natural boundary of entertainment and is now associated with the process of problem solving while providing analytical questioning of scientific viewpoints through active gameplay. The rules of game interaction or game mechanics include the concepts of usability and playability which are focused in a less complex environment which provides a more intuitive user experience (UX). In the process of CAD development and applications the effective use and support of the user's perception and their UX have been compromised by the engineering design system's functionality and step-by-step evolution. This article reviews gaming techniques and mechanisms that may potentially be beneficial to the future development of CAD systems in engineering, in particular to maintain cognitive engagement. In light of this, the article focuses on the fundamental activity of engineering using CAD systems with particular attention on CAD graphical user interfaces (GUIs) and how they can be potentially enhanced using game mechanics to provide more engaging and intuitive environments. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Traditionally, consumer preference is modeled in terms of preference for the aesthetic and functional features of a product. This paper introduces a new means to model consumer preference that accounts for not only for how a product looks and functions but also how it feels to interact with it. Traditional conjoint-based approaches to preference modeling require a participant to judge preference for a product based upon a static 2D visual representation or a feature list. While the aesthetic forms and functional features of a product are certainly important, the decision to buy or not to buy a product often depends on more, namely, the experience or feel of use. To address the importance of the product experience, we introduce the concept of experiential conjoint analysis, a method to mathematically capture preference for a product through experience-based (experiential) preference judgments. Experiential preference judgments are made based upon the use, or simulated use, of a product. For many products, creating enough physical prototypes to generate a preference model is cost prohibitive. In this work, virtual reality (VR) technologies are used to allow the participant an interactive virtual product experience, provided at little investment. The results of this work show that providing additional interaction-based (interactional) information about a product through a product experience does not affect the predictive ability of the resulting preference models. This work additionally demonstrates that the preference judgments of virtual product representations are more similar to preference judgments of real products than preference judgments of 2D product representations are. When examining similarity of modeled preference, experiential conjoint is found to be superior to visual conjoint with respect to mean absolute error (MAE), but with respect to correlation no significant difference between visual and experiential is found.

Purpose - Brand "Likes" on Facebook facilitate self-expression, forming part of consumers' virtual selves. Yet, consumers' brand "Likes" may bear little resemblance to their material realities. This paper aims to test similarities of brand image with self-image for Facebook "Likes" to determine whether self-congruence with a "Liked" brand leads to positive offline brand outcomes. It also investigates whether consumers' perceptions about their Facebook social relations influence self-congruent brand "Likes". Design/methodology/approach - A large-scale survey was conducted of regular Facebook users who "Liked" brands. Data from 438 respondents was analysed and hypotheses tested using structural equation modeling. Findings - Empirical results show that the perceived self-congruence with a "Liked" brand increases with social tie strength. Perceived social tie strength is informed by perceived attitude homophily. When the perceived self-congruence with a "Liked" brand is higher, brand love and word of mouth (WOM) are enhanced. Consumers also have greater brand loyalty and offer more WOM when brands are loved. Research limitations/implications - Findings demonstrate the influence of consumers' cognitive network on "Likes" and brand outcomes. Further replication would enhance generalisability. Future research should use a wider sample and investigate other variables. Practical implications - Findings support managers seeking to grow and analyse Facebook "Likes" by providing insights into brand loyalty, brand love and WOM for "Liked" brands. Originality/value - The paper addresses the dearth of research exploring how consumers' perceptions of their Facebook network influence their online brand behaviour and how perceived self-congruence with a "Liked" brand relates to brand outcomes.

Aim To co-produce consensus on the key issues important in educating mental health-care professionals to optimize mental health medication adherence in Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) groups. Objectives To identify perceptions of factors enabling or disabling medication adherence. To achieve consensus on content and delivery of an educational intervention for mental health-care professionals. Methods Data were collected from 2016 to 2018. Using individual interviews and a consensus workshop with carers and service users (SUs treated under the 1983 Mental Health Act 1983/revised 2007 for England and Wales), the experience of taking prescribed mental health medication and perspectives on adherence were explored. Data were analysed using 2-stage qualitative coding via the software tool NVivo version 11 to analyse transcribed data and to produce the main explanatory categories. Results SU and carer participants' perspectives substantially altered the original research design. The need to educate students rather than trained professionals was emphasized, and they suggested that educational content should be packaged in a contemporary manner (a virtual reality experience). Findings indicated that education should focus upon understanding the impact of taking prescribed antipsychotic medication on both SUs and carers. Discussion The importance of effective communication between health professionals, SUs and carers and a willingness to learn about and appreciate how BAME culture influences perception of mental illness and mental well-being were highlighted. Conclusion In working co-productively, researchers need to be flexible and adaptable to change. Z8 0

PurposeInaccurate capturing and processing of customer requirements result in negative economic and ecological effects. Digital twins of customer demands promise to remedy these issues. However, successful implementation necessitates users' technology acceptance. This study contrasts three hierarchical digital twin levels with different degrees of user integration and examines determinants for their respective acceptance.Design/methodology/approachA structural equation model is applied in a comparative manner, considering different levels of digital twin radicalness. A multidimensional approach is used to measure attitudes towards usage. Data are collected in the context of organisational supply management.FindingsResults show harmonious effects across digital twin levels. This indicates that technological radicality plays only a subordinate role when assessing acceptance determinants such as user perception on ease of use, usefulness, trust and risk.Practical implicationsRather than focussing solely on technological factors, findings suggest that users prioritise the actual outcome and efficiency of the system. This perspective offers practical implications for organisations seeking to implement advanced systems and emphasises the significance of user perceptions beyond technological features.Social implicationsThe societal impact of this research are an appreciation of customer roles in the supply chain where an enhanced detection of customer needs and preferences aligns businesses with the dynamic and evolving demands of a diverse and a continuously environmentally-conscious consumer base.Originality/valueThis study applies a measurement model for technology acceptance in a unique and multidimensional manner. Thereby, a comparative analysis of user perceptions across different digital twin levels sheds more light on a nascent, promising and underexplored technological method. This interdisciplinary research combined knowledge from the supply chain management and management information systems fields by highlighting key factors for the adoption of complex technological methods.

Spatial knowledge, especially survey knowledge, plays a pivotal role in people's daily spatial tasks. However, the inherently limited visual perception and integration of spatial information often leads to inaccuracies in survey knowledge, with far-reaching consequences that affect performance, emotion, and safety in completing spatial tasks. In this study, we developed a mixed reality (MR)-based coordinate system and conducted a comparative user experiment involving 56 participants to explore whether perceiving metric and global spatial references during navigation may enhance the accuracy of user-acquired spatial knowledge. The experiment encompassed a spatial learning task where participants navigated and learned the selected indoor environment, followed by a desktop-based landmark recalling task to evaluate the accuracy of participants' acquired survey knowledge. The results revealed the following insights: (1) the use of MR-based coordinate system significantly improved egocentric and allocentric spatial relations in participants' survey knowledge; (2) participants' errors in spatial relations among landmarks accumulate over distance, whereas the MR-based coordinate system helps maintain the errors at a consistent level; (3) no significant correlations were found between errors in participants' survey knowledge and environmental familiarity, suggesting that the aiding effect of the MR-based coordinate system was independent of users' prior knowledge of the environment; (4) participants reported increased mental demand using the MR-based coordinate system, but this did not result in diminished spatial learning performance or additional time pressure and learning efforts. These empirical results contribute to the future study of spatial knowledge acquisition and the design of spatial learning interfaces in mixed reality.

When a product design is considered a communication form between the designer and the user, different perception channels and sensory receptions are involved [1]. For a product to be understood by the user different levels of assimilation are involved on how to read it. Receptor channels, needs to stimulate a sensation when a person receives an external stimulus, so an information can be absorbed by sight, hearing, taste, smell and touch. Therefore, it may be understood as one of the functions of the designer to interpret its own experiences, or the users' experiences to create. Such experiences can be subjective reactions developed through an objective reality which can be translated to a real product. As a learning and teaching strategy it became clear how relevant it is for the students to develop such ability. On the undergraduate course Design in State University of Maringa (UEM), at Cianorte, Parana, the course disciplines intending to provide such basis are 'Plastica I and Plastica II'. These courses aim to 'offer the student the necessary repertoire to comprehend and develop object visual shapes'. Offered in the first year, so the student develops the skills to use throughout all the programme, like on design process courses. As a way of integrating these principles to students, an introductory class called "Sensorial Dynamics" was developed to stimulate their senses. Nowadays, technology and reality simulations by virtual environment is too intense, which favors sight as the most used and evolved sense among the five. It is believed that the younger generations often have no meaningful experiences related to the other senses, which can result on not enough repertoire to use on the development of product designs. In light of this reality, a class was planned with the student sight inhibited and the other senses were stimulated. By inhibiting the sight, the sensations and stimuli received during the dynamic activity are experienced much more intensely. Considering synesthesia, the most striking sense relation, that is, the stimulus destined to a particular sensor but perceived by another - with which the former apparently has no direct connection -, the neurological variant of the idea of synesthesia [2], if well directed, during a project can be applied on the development of a project, with creative and innovative results. The present paper aims to report the development and structure of the class "Sensorial Dynamics", as well as present the students' feedback of the experience. The lecture occurred on the academic years 2017 and 2018. How this sensorial experience was evoked and reiterated by the teachers and how students used the developed skill by the dynamic during the semester this class was lectured is also presented.

Briefing: In the construction of Metaverses, sensors that are referred to as the "bridge of information transmission ", play a key role. The functionality and efficiency of today's sensors, which operate in a manner similar to physical sensing, are frequently constrained by their hardware and software. In this research, we proposed the Parallel Sensing framework, which includes background, concept, basic methods and typical application of parallel sensing. In our formulation, sensors are redefined as the integration of real physical sensors and virtual software-defined sensors based on parallel intelligence, in order to boost the performance of the sensors. Each sensor will have a parallel counterpart in the virtual world within the framework of parallel sensing. Digital sensors serve as the brain of sensors and maintain the same properties as physical sensors. Parallel sensing allows physical sensors to operate in discrete time periods to conserve energy, while cloud-based descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive sensors operate continuously to offer compensation data and serve as guardians. To better illustrate parallel sensing concept, we show some example applications of parallel sensing such as parallel vision, parallel point cloud and parallel light fields, both of which are designed by construct virtual sensors to extend small real data to virtual big data and then boost the performance of perception models. Experimental results demonstrate the effective of parallel sensing framework. The interaction between the real and virtual worlds enables sensors to operate actively, allowing them to intelligently adapt to various scenarios and ultimately attain the goal of "Cognitive, Parallel, Crypto, Federated, Social and Ecologic " 6S sensing.

Virtual reality dental training simulators, unlike traditional human-based assessment, have the potential to enable consistent and reliable assessment. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a haptic simulator (IDEA Dental((R))) could provide a reliable and valid assessment of manual dexterity. A total of 106 participants were divided into three groups differing in dental manual dexterity experience: (i) 63 dental students, (ii) 28 dentists, (iii) 14 non-dentists. The groups, which were expected to display various performance levels, were required to perform virtual drilling tasks in different geometric shapes. The following task parameters were registered: (i) Time to completion (ii) accuracy (iii) number of trials to successful completion and (iv) score provided by the simulator. The reliability of the tasks was calculated for each parameter. The simulator and its scoring algorithm showed high reliability in all the parameters measured. The simulator was able to differentiate between non-professionals and dental students or non-professionals and dentists. Our study suggests that for improved construct validity, shorter working times and more difficult tasks should be introduced. The device should also be designed to provide greater sensitivity in measuring the accuracy of the task.

Augmented reality (AR) is used to enhance the perception of the real world by integrating virtual objects to an image sequence acquired from various camera technologies. Numerous AR applications in robotics have been developed in recent years. The aim of this paper is to provide an overview of AR research in robotics during the five year period from 2015 to 2019. We classified these works in terms of application areas into four categories: (1) Medical robotics: Robot-Assisted surgery (RAS), prosthetics, rehabilitation, and training systems; (2) Motion planning and control: trajectory generation, robot programming, simulation, and manipulation; (3) Human-robot interaction (HRI): teleoperation, collaborative interfaces, wearable robots, haptic interfaces, brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), and gaming; (4) Multi-agent systems: use of visual feedback to remotely control drones, robot swarms, and robots with shared workspace. Recent developments in AR technology are discussed followed by the challenges met in AR due to issues of camera localization, environment mapping, and registration. We explore AR applications in terms of how AR was integrated and which improvements it introduced to corresponding fields of robotics. In addition, we summarize the major limitations of the presented applications in each category. Finally, we conclude our review with future directions of AR research in robotics. The survey covers over 100 research works published over the last five years.

This paper describes the design and development of a computer game for instructing an athlete through a series of prescribed rehabilitation exercises. In an attempt to prevent or treat musculoskeletal type injuries along with trying to improve physical performance, athletes are prescribed exercise programmes by appropriately trained specialists. Typically athletes are shown how to perform each exercise in the clinic following examination but they often have no way of knowing if their technique is correct while they are performing their home exercise programme. We describe a system that allows an automatic audit of this activity. Our system utilises ten inertial motion tracking sensors incorporated in a wearable body suit which allows a bluetooth connection from a root hub to a laptop/computer. Using our specifically designed software programme, the athlete can be instructed and analysed as he/she performs the individually tailored exercise programme and a log is recorded of the time and performance level of each exercise completed. We describe a case study that illustrates how a clinician can at a later date review the athletes progress and subsequently alter the exercise programme as they see fit.

Background: 2D and 3D virtual reality platforms are used for designing individualized training environments for post-stroke rehabilitation. Virtual environments (VEs) are viewed using media like head mounted displays (HMDs) and large screen projection systems (SPS) which can influence the quality of perception of the environment. We estimated if there were differences in arm pointing kinematics when subjects with and without stroke viewed a 3D VE through two different media: HMD and SPS. Methods: Two groups of subjects participated (healthy control, n = 10, aged 53.6 +/- 17.2 yrs; stroke, n = 20, 66.2 +/- 11.3 yrs). Arm motor impairment and spasticity were assessed in the stroke group which was divided into mild (n = 10) and moderate-to-severe (n = 10) sub-groups based on Fugl-Meyer Scores. Subjects pointed (8 times each) to 6 randomly presented targets located at two heights in the ipsilateral, middle and contralateral arm workspaces. Movements were repeated in the same VE viewed using HMD (Kaiser XL50) and SPS. Movement kinematics were recorded using an Optotrak system (Certus, 6 markers, 100 Hz). Upper limb motor performance (precision, velocity, trajectory straightness) and movement pattern (elbow, shoulder ranges and trunk displacement) outcomes were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVAs. Results: For all groups, there were no differences in endpoint trajectory straightness, shoulder flexion and shoulder horizontal adduction ranges and sagittal trunk displacement between the two media. All subjects, however, made larger errors in the vertical direction using HMD compared to SPS. Healthy subjects also made larger errors in the sagittal direction, slower movements overall and used less range of elbow extension for the lower central target using HMD compared to SPS. The mild and moderate-to-severe sub-groups made larger RMS errors with HMD. The only advantage of using the HMD was that movements were 22% faster in the moderate-to-severe stroke subgroup compared to the SPS. Conclusions: Despite the similarity in majority of the movement kinematics, differences in movement speed and larger errors were observed for movements using the HMD. Use of the SPS may be a more comfortable and effective option to view VEs for upper limb rehabilitation post-stroke. This has implications for the use of VR applications to enhance upper limb recovery.

Pressing a virtual button is still the major interaction method in touchscreen mobile phones. Although phones are becoming more and more powerful, operating system software is getting more and more complex, causing latency in interaction. We were interested in gaining insight into touch-feedback simultaneity and the effects of latency on the perceived quality of touchscreen buttons. In an experiment, we varied the latency between touch and feedback between 0 and 300 ms for tactile, audio, and visual feedback modalities. We modelled the proportion of simultaneity perception as a function of latency for each modality condition. We used a Gaussian model fitted with the maximum likelihood estimation method to the observations. These models showed that the point of subjective simultaneity (PSS) was 5ms for tactile, 19ms for audio, and 32ms for visual feedback. Our study included the scoring of perceived quality for all of the different latency conditions. The perceived quality dropped significantly between latency conditions 70 and 100 ms when the feedback modality was tactile or audio, and between 100 and 150 ms when the feedback modality was visual. When the latency was 300ms for all feedback modalities, the quality of the buttons was rated significantly lower than in all of the other latency conditions, suggesting that a long latency between a touch on the screen and feedback is problematic for users. Together with PSS and these quality ratings, a 75% threshold was established to define a guideline for the recommended latency range between touch and feedback. Our guideline suggests that tactile feedback latency should be between 5 and 50 ms, audio feedback latency between 20 and 70 ms, and visual feedback latency between 30 and 85 ms. Using these values will ensure that users will perceive the feedback as simultaneous with the finger's touch. These values also ensure that the users do not perceive reduced quality. These results will guide engineers and designers of touchscreen interactions by showing the trade-offs between latency and user preference and the effects that their choices might have on the quality of the interactions and feedback they design. Z8 0

Background: Conventional transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) can be learned using high-fidelity virtual-reality platforms and low-fidelity models comprised of molded silicone or excised animal airways. Objectives: The purpose of this study was to determine perceptions and preferences of learners and instructors regarding the comparative effectiveness of low-fidelity and high-fidelity bronchoscopy simulation for training in TBNA. Methods: During the 2008 annual CHEST conference, a prospective randomized crossover design was used to train study participants in three methods of conventional TBNA using low-and high-fidelity models. Likert style questions were administered to learners and instructors in order to elicit preferences and opinions regarding educational effectiveness of the models. Results were tabulated and depicted in graphic format, with medians calculated. Results: Learners felt that the models were equally enjoyable (13-13) and enthusiasm generating (low 17-high 15). There was preference for low-fidelity in terms of realism (23-17), ease of learning (20-6), and learning all three TBNA methods (31-7 for hub-against-wall, 31-6 for jabbing, 29-6 for piggyback). Low-fidelity was preferred as an ideal model overall (19-11). Instructors thought that low-fidelity was more useful in teaching TBNA (9-0 for all three methods). Instructors perceived the low-fidelity model overall as an ideal tool for learning TBNA (8-0) and a more effective teaching instrument (8-0). Conclusion: Based on learner and instructor perceptions, a low-fidelity model is superior to a high-fidelity platform for training in three methods of conventional TBNA. Copyright (C) 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel

This study investigated how modifications in the display of a computer trace under user control of grasp forces can co-modulate agency (perception of control) and performance of grasp on rigid and compliant surfaces. We observed positive correlation (p < 0.01) between implicit agency, measured from time-interval estimation for intentional binding, and grasp performance, measured by force-tracking error, across varying control modes for each surface type. The implications of this work are design directives for cognition-centered device interfaces for rehabilitation of grasp after neurotraumas such as spinal cord and brain injuries while considering if grasp interaction is rigid or compliant. These device interfaces should increase user integration to virtual reality training and powered assistive devices such as exoskeletons and prostheses. The modifications in control modes for this study included changes in force magnitude, addition of mild noise, and a measure of automation. Significant differences (p < 0.001) were observed for each surface type across control modes with metrics for implicit agency, performance, and grasp control efficiency. Explicit agency, measured from user survey responses, did not exhibit significant variations in this study, suggesting implicit measures of agency are needed for identifying co-modulation with grasp performance. Grasp on the compliant surface resulted in greater dependence of performance on agency and increases in agency and performance with the addition of mild noise. Noise in conjunction with perceived freedom at a flexible surface may have amplified visual feedback responses. Introducing automation in control decreased agency and performance for both surfaces, suggesting the value in continuous user control of grasp. In conclusion, agency and performance of grasp can be co-modulated across varying modes of control, especially for compliant grasp actions. Future studies should consider reliable measures of implicit agency, including physiological recordings, to automatically adapt rehabilitation interfaces for better cognitive engagement and to accelerate functional outcomes.

Architectural and psychological theories posit that built environments have the potential to elicit complex psychological responses. However, few researchers have seriously explored this potential. Given the increasing importance and fidelity of virtual worlds, such research should explore whether virtual models of built environments are also capable of eliciting complex psychological responses. The goal of this study was to test these hypotheses, using a church, a corresponding virtual model, and an inclusive measure of state spirituality (spiritual feelings). Participants (n=33) explored a physical church and corresponding virtual model, completing a measure of spiritual feelings after exploring the outside and inside of each version of the church. Using spiritual feelings after exploring the outside of the church as a baseline measure, change in state spirituality was assessed by taking the difference between spiritual feelings after exploring the inside and outside of the church (inside-outside) for both models. Although this change was greater in response to the physical church, there was no significant difference between the two models in eliciting such change in spiritual feelings. Despite the limitations of this exploratory study, these findings indicate that both built environments and corresponding virtual models are capable of evoking complex psychological responses.

The article reports on a study that incorporated an immersive 3 D virtual environment, created in Second Life (SL) into the curriculum of a Chinese program, including its development, implementation and evaluation. This innovation supplemented classroom teaching of Chinese language throughout one semester at a regional Australian university. Using the existing resource called Chinese Island (CI) created by a major urban Australian university, the primary aim of this study was to probe student's perceptions about the resource. Due to curriculum differences between two universities, customised language and culture learning tasks based on the learnt textbook content were designed on CI, with instructions and associated quizzes hosted in a private Moodle site-a widely-used learning management system (LMS) environment. Twenty-eight mixed-level undergraduate Chinese as a foreign language (CFL) students participated in a survey, and seven of these students were interviewed. The questionnaire and interview data were collected and analysed during the study. Following analysis, results indicated that students welcomed the experiential learning opportunity to explore Chinese culture and language outside the classroom afforded by CI. Anecdotal evidence suggested that students became more aware of the complicated pragmatic issues in real life communication. The survey results, including the participants' responses to open-ended questions, are discussed in this paper. Pedagogical implications and directions for further research are also considered.

Purpose/Objectives: To explore virtual reality (VR) as a distraction intervention to relieve symptom distress in adults receiving chemotherapy treatments for breast, colon, and lung cancer. Design: Crossover design in which participants served as their own control. Setting: Outpatient clinic at a comprehensive cancer center in the southeastern United States. Sample: 123 adults receiving initial chemotherapy treatments. Methods: Participants were randomly assigned to receive the VR distraction intervention during one chemotherapy treatment and then received no intervention (control) during an alternate matched chemotherapy treatment. The Adapted Symptom Distress Scale-2, Revised Piper Fatigue Scale, and State Anxiety Inventory were used to measure symptom distress. The Presence Questionnaire and an open-ended questionnaire were used to evaluate the subjects' VR experience. The influence of type of cancer, age, and gender on symptom outcomes was explored. Mixed models were used to test for differences in levels of symptom distress. Main Research Variables: Virtual reality and symptom distress. Findings: Patients had an altered perception of time (p < 0.001) when using VR, which validates the distracting capacity of the intervention. Evaluation of the intervention indicated that patients believed the head-mounted device was easy to use, they experienced no cybersickness, and 82% would use VR again. However, analysis demonstrated no significant differences in symptom distress immediately or two days following chemotherapy treatments. Conclusions: Patients stated that using VR made the treatment seem shorter and that chemotherapy treatments with VR were better than treatments without the distraction intervention. However, positive experiences did not result in a decrease in symptom distress. The findings support the idea that using VR can help to make chemotherapy treatments more tolerable, but clinicians should not assume that use of VR will improve chemotherapy-related symptoms. Implications for Nursing: Patients found using VR during chemotherapy treatments to be enjoyable. VR is a feasible and cost-effective distraction intervention to implement in the clinical setting.

Purpose This study aims to investigate the combined effects of product design and environment congruence on consumers' aesthetic, affective and behavioral responses. Design/methodology/approach Two lab experiments with a 2 (high-level design cues vs low-level design cues) x 2 (congruent environment vs non-congruent environment) between-subjects design were conducted to test the hypotheses. The experimental stimuli (product: digital camera; environment: product display in a retail environment) were presented in a 3D simulation environment using a large TV (Experiment 1) and a stereoscopic virtual reality headset. Findings The results support the notion that product design cues elicit more positive aesthetic and affective responses. Environment congruence, on the other hand, plays a moderating role; product design cues elicit more favorable consumer responses in a congruent environment. In contrast, no such effect was found in a non-congruent environment. Practical implications Creating a congruent environment is only effective for well-designed products. In contrast, for products with low-level design elements, the congruence of promotional environment is not instrumental and may not elicit more favorable responses. Hence, such products can simply be presented in a generic display, especially considering the significant costs associated with designing, building and setting up a congruent display. Originality/value Despite the empirical findings supporting the significant role of product design and environment congruence on consumers' perceptual and behavioral responses, there is a paucity of research on the combined effect of these two factors. The present investigation is an attempt to fill this gap and challenges the generalizations made in previous research suggesting that a product's environment must be aligned with the design elements embedded in the product.

In order to present abundant vibrotactile patterns on VR handheld controllers, it is critical to understand human's perceptual performance of vibrotactile cues. In this study, a compact cylindrical handheld stylus with five vibrotactile motors was developed. 24 vibrotactile flow patterns in 3 dimensions were designed by using the five motors, including four parameters: the geometric topology of the flow, flow direction, inter-stimulus-interval (ISI) and repetitive times of the flow. Furthermore, 10 patterns were selected from that 24 patterns to compose an easier candidate group for the recognition. User studies were performed to measure the correct rate of identifying a specific pattern from all the 24 or 10 candidate patterns after one-hour training. Compared with the 24 candidates identification, significant improvement was observed for the correct rate of identifying a specific flow pattern from 10 candidate patterns. Analysis of error patterns reveals that vibration propagation and phantom sensation due to the ISI difference are the main influences of the correct rates. These findings might provide design guidelines for VR handheld controllers with vibrotactile feedback.

In many applications, Embodied Conversational Agents (ECAs) must be able to express various affects such as emotions or social attitudes. Non-verbal signals, such as smiles or gestures, contribute to the expression of attitudes. Social attitudes affect the whole behavior of a person: they are "characteristic of an affective style that colors the entire interaction" [1] . Moreover, recent findings have demonstrated that non-verbal signals are not interpreted in isolation but along with surrounding signals. Non-verbal behavior planning models designed to allow ECAs to express attitudes should thus consider complete sequences of non-verbal signals and not only signals independently of one another. However, existing models do not take this into account, or in a limited manner. The contribution of this paper is a methodology for the automatic extraction of sequences of non-verbal signals characteristic of a social phenomenon from a multimodal corpus, and a non-verbal behavior planning model that takes into account sequences of non-verbal signals rather than signals independently. This methodology is applied to design a virtual recruiter capable of expressing social attitudes, which is then evaluated in and out of an interaction context.

This application paper presents the work of a multidisciplinary group of designing, implementing, and testing an Augmented Reality (AR) surgical telementoring system. The system acquires the surgical field with an overhead camera, the video feed is transmitted to the remote mentor, where it is displayed on a touch-based interaction table, the mentor annotates the video feed, the annotations are sent back to the mentee, where they are displayed into the mentee's field of view using an optical see-through AR head-mounted display (HMD). The annotations are reprojected from the mentor's second-person view of the surgical field to the mentee's first-person view. The mentee sees the annotations with depth perception, and the annotations remain anchored to the surgical field as the mentee moves their head. Average annotation display accuracy is 1.22cm. The system was tested in the context of a user study where surgery residents (n = 20) were asked to perform a lower-leg fasciotomy on cadaver models. Participants who benefited from telementoring using our system received a higher Individual Performance Score, and they reported higher usability and self confidence levels.

PurposeBuilding on technology acceptance and learning transfer theories, this study aims to evaluate the integration of mobile augmented reality (MAR) in omnichannel retailing touchpoints for Generation Z (or Gen Z)'s apparel shopping, assessing how habitual augmented reality (AR) use in nonretailing contexts impacts Gen Z's motivations, acceptance and use of MAR shopping apps.Design/methodology/approachA total of 562 participants downloaded a footwear MAR app and completed a survey. Data were analyzed using confirmatory factor analysis and multivariate regression to explore moderated mediation effects.FindingsThe study reveals a paradigm shift: Gen Z's habitual use of AR in social media (e.g. Snapchat and TikTok face filters) significantly influences their intent to use MAR in shopping, overshadowing hedonic motivations. This marks a transition from AR as a gimmick to a practical utility in omnichannel touchpoints, with performance expectancy emerging as a critical mediator in adopting MAR for utilitarian purposes.Research limitations/implicationsThis study highlights how Gen Z consumers' tech habits influence their pragmatic view of MAR, urging re-exploration of the main constructs of the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology 2 (UTAUT2) model.Practical implicationsFindings suggest Gen Z values practicality over fun in MAR shopping apps, guiding marketers to emphasize tangible benefits for this demographic.Originality/valueThis research underscores the evolving perception of AR in retail among mobile natives, highlighting the shift from novelty to habitual utility. It offers strategic insights for integrating AR into omnichannel strategies, catering to the utilitarian expectations of Gen Z in the digital retail landscape. Z8 0

Background: Physical activity (PA) is associated with a variety of physical and psychosocial health benefits, but levels of moderate-to-vigorous intensity PA remain low worldwide. Virtual reality (VR) gaming systems involving movement (VR exergames) could be used to engage people in more PA. Objective: This study aimed to synthesize public reviews of popular VR exergames to identify common features that players liked or disliked to inform future VR exergame design. Methods: We conducted a thematic analysis of 498 reviews of the 29 most popular exergames sold in the top 3 VR marketplaces: Steam (Valve Corporation), Viveport (Valve Corporation), and Oculus (Oculus VR). We categorized reviews as positive and negative as they appeared in the marketplaces and identified the most common themes using an inductive thematic analysis. Results: The reviews were often mixed, reporting a wide variety of expectations, preferences, and gaming experiences. Players preferred highly realistic games (eg, closely simulated real-world sport), games that were intuitive (in terms of body movement and controls), and games that provided gradual increases in skill acquisition. Players reported feeling that they reached a high level of exertion when playing and that the immersion distracted them from the intensity of the exercise. Some preferred features included music and social aspects of the games, with multiplayer options to include friends or receive help from experienced players. There were 3 main themes in negative reviews. The first concerned bugs that rendered games frustrating. Second, the quality of graphics had a particularly strong impact on perceived enjoyment. Finally, reviewers disliked when games had overly complex controls and display functions that evoked motion sickness. Conclusions: Exergames prove to be a stimulating avenue for players to engage in PA and distract themselves from the negative perceptions of performing exercise. The common negative aspects of VR exergames should be addressed for increased uptake and continued engagement.

Interactive health websites where threat appeals are incorporated have become a popular strategy to engage users in preventive health behaviors. The current study examines how website interactivity enhances the effectiveness of threat appeals and thus encourages preventive health behaviors in the context of an anti-sugar campaign. A single factor design experiment (N = 109) with two conditions (high vs. low interactivity) was employed to investigate the effects of website interactivity on sugar control intentions. The results demonstrated that higher interactivity elicited greater fear and disgust, which then subsequently increased perceived threats of sugar intake. Perceived threats heightened by interactivity led to greater preventive behavioral intentions. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.

In the educational context, there currently emerges a growing research interest in using mobile augmented reality (AR) and the gamification concept to promote environmental education (EE). However, to date, scant attention has been paid to practically linking this approach to formal curricula at the tertiary level in China. Given the situation, we designed a geolocation-based mobile AR scavenger hunt to explore students' perception of embedding technology-enhanced and gamified EE in their language learning process. Ninety-eight first-year students, majoring in English at a Chinese university, were invited to participate in this study. In this game, students need to find the answers to 24 environment-themed questions phrased in English. Guided by prior technology acceptance research, we employed a mixed methods approach to capture participants' experience and perception of the process. The results show that this approach was positively perceived among the participants, for it could not only enrich their language learning experience but also promote their awareness of the environment. The findings offer insights into how EE can be purposefully integrated with tertiary education by leveraging current technological and pedagogical innovations.

This study presents a new concept of buttock skin stretch to induce the perception of shear force while sitting. Skin stretch is a potential approach to deliver kinesthetic information by cutaneous stimuli with a compact and portable device. We first introduce the buttock skin stretch approach for a virtual motion platform to enhance the experience of self-motion acceleration. We developed a single degree-of-freedom skin stretch device to deform the buttock skin in the lateral direction of the frontal plane. To deal with the shape difference of buttocks, the initial position of the sliding contactors was calibrated with the buttock pressure distribution on the seat. We investigated the relationship between the contactor displacement and the perceived shear force on each lateral side. The estimated magnitudes of the perceived force showed a monotonically increasing trend corresponding to the skin stretch displacement on each side. The observed similarity between the left and right sides suggests the good reproducibility of the proposed method. We also investigated the bias effect of the buttock skin stretch to the perceived acceleration of self-motion, which was induced by the vection illusion presented with an optical flow. The results of the magnitude estimation suggest that skin displacement of 9mm biased the perceived acceleration more than that of 3mm displacement. These findings suggest that the shear force induced by the buttock skin stretch can enhance the perception of self-motion.

PurposeAugmented reality (AR) adoption has boomed globally in recent years. The prospective of AR to seamlessly integrate digital information into the actual environment has proven to be a challenge for academics and industry, as they endeavor to understand and predict the influence on users' perceptions, adoption intentions and usage. This study investigates the factors affecting consumers' behavioral intention to adopt AR technology in shopping malls by offering the mobile technology acceptance model (MTAM).Design/methodology/approachThis conceptual framework is based on mobile self-efficacy, rewards, social influence and enjoyment of existing MTAM constructs. A self-administered questionnaire, constructed by measuring questions modified from previous research, elicited 311 usable responses from mobile respondents who had recently used AR technology in shopping malls. This analysis was performed using SmartPLS3.0.FindingsGrounded on the findings of the study, it was found that, aside from factors such as mobile usefulness, ease of use and social influence, the remaining independent variables had the most significant impact on adopting AR technologies. Considering the limitations of this study, the paper concludes by discussing the significant implications and insinuating avenues for future research.Originality/valueTo better investigate mobile AR app adoption in Pakistan's shopping malls, the researchers modified the newly proposed MTAM model by incorporating mobile self-efficacy theory, social influence, rewards and perceived enjoyment. However, the extended model has not been extensively studied in previous research. This study is the first to examine the variables that affect an individual's intention to accept mobile AR apps by using a novel extended MTAM.

Evacuation from a smoke filled tunnel requires quick decision-making and swift action from the tunnel occupants. Technical installations such as emergency signage aim to guide tunnel occupants to the closest emergency exits. However, conflicting information may come from the behavior of other tunnel occupants. We examined if and how conflicting social information may affect evacuation in terms of delayed and/or inadequate evacuation decisions and behaviors. To this end, forty participants were repeatedly situated in a virtual reality smoke filled tunnel with an emergency exit visible to one side of the participants. Four social influence conditions were realized. In the control condition participants were alone in the tunnel, while in the other three experimental conditions a virtual agent (VA) was present. In the no-conflict condition, the VA moved to the emergency exit. In the active conflict condition, the VA moved in the opposite direction of the emergency exit. In the passive conflict condition, the VA stayed passive. Participants were less likely to move to the emergency exit in the conflict conditions compared to the no-conflict condition. Pre-movement and movement times in the passive conflict condition were significantly delayed compared to all other conditions. Participants moved the longest distances in the passive conflict condition. These results support the hypothesis that social influence affects evacuation behavior, especially passive behavior of others can thwart an evacuation to safety. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

As immersive technologies target to provide higher quality of multimedia experiences, it is important to understand the quality of experience (QoE) perceived by users from various multimedia rendering schemes, in order to design and optimize human-centric immersive multimedia systems. In this study, various QoE-related aspects, such as depth perception, sensation of reality, content preference, and perceived quality are investigated and compared for presentation of 2D and 3D contents. Since the advantages of implicit over explicit QoE assessment have become essential, the way these QoE-related aspects influence brain and periphery is also investigated. In particular, two classification schemes using electroencephalography (EEG) and peripheral signals (electrocardiography and respiration) are carried out, to explore if it is possible to automatically recognize the QoE-related aspects under investigation. In addition, a decision-fusion scheme is applied to EEG and peripheral features, to explore the advantage of integrating information from the two modalities. The results reveal that the highest monomodal average informedness is achieved in the high beta EEG band (0.14 % +/- 0.09, p < 0.01), when recognizing sensation of reality. The highest and significantly non-random multimodal average informedness is achieved when high beta EEG band is fused with peripheral features (0.17 % +/- 0.1, p < 0.01), for the case of sensation of reality. Finally, a temporal analysis is conducted to explore how the EEG correlates for the case of sensation of reality change over time. The results reveal that the right cortex is more involved when sensation of reality is low, and the left when sensation of reality is high, indicating that approach and withdrawal-related processes occur during sensation of reality. Z8 0

The choice of haptic rendering tools plays a pivotal role in the perception of the simulated kinesthetic feedback. This paper introduces a novel approach using Crazyflie-based quadcopters as haptic rendering devices to simulate virtual stiffness. By designing a specialized cage and implementing control using Crazyswarm and both centralized and decentralized localization techniques, we implemented the smallest dronebased direct-touch encounter-type haptic feedback device. We evaluated three different proportional control levels, with each level simulating a different stiffness based on a distance-to-thrust response. We conducted a user study, which revealed that even with only 21 grams of the force output range, participants could distinguish between the proportional levels, perceiving higher proportional levels as increased stiffness. We also identified distinct vibration characteristics between cages made of different 3D printing materials. Our findings suggest that quadcopters can be effectively used as haptic tools, offering a controllable kinesthetic feedback system.

The haptic interface plays an increasingly important role in enhancing the realism and immersion of the user's interaction with the touch screen. Inspired by the wearable haptic system, this paper proposes a finger wearable device called FW-Touch for touch screen interaction. The device provides normal force, lateral force, and vibrotactile feedback for the interaction of the finger and the touch screen through three internally integrated actuators. By displaying the hardness, friction, and roughness of a virtual surface, the device is capable of simulating the active exploration and sensing process of the finger on a real surface. This paper describes the design and specifications of the FW-Touch, and details the design process of a magnetorheological (MR) foam actuator that uses a Hall sensor to correct the output force. Through physical measurements and psychophysical experiments, we comprehensively evaluated the force feedback performance of the FW-Touch and its ability in displaying the stiffness and friction of the virtual surface. The results show that improving the accuracy of force feedback is necessary for virtual stiffness display, and the accuracy and effectiveness of the FW-Touch in displaying virtual surface features can be confirmed from the measured stiffness and friction Weber fractions. Z8 2

Background: Individuals with autism often experience heightened anxiety in workplace environments because of challenges in communication and sensory overload. As these experiences can result in negative self-image, promoting their self-efficacy in the workplace is crucial. Virtual reality (VR) systems have emerged as promising tools for enhancing the self-efficacy of individuals with autism in navigating social scenarios, aiding in the identification of anxiety-inducing situations, and preparing for real-world interactions. However, there is limited research exploring the potential of VR to enhance self-efficacy by facilitating an understanding of emotional and physiological states during social skills practice. Objective: This study aims to develop and evaluate a VR system that enabled users to experience simulated work-related social scenarios and reflect on their behavioral and physiological data through data visualizations. We intended to investigate how these data, combined with the simulations, can support individuals with autism in building their self-efficacy in social skills. Methods: We developed WorkplaceVR, a comprehensive VR system designed for engagement in simulated work-related social scenarios, supplemented with data-driven reflections of users' behavioral and physiological responses. A within-subject deployment study was subsequently conducted with 14 young adults with autism to examine WorkplaceVR's feasibility. A mixed methods approach was used, compassing pre-and postsystem use assessments of participants' self-efficacy perceptions. Results: The study results revealed WorkplaceVR's effectiveness in enhancing social skills and self-efficacy among individuals with autism. First, participants exhibited a statistically significant increase in perceived self-efficacy following their engagement with the VR system (P=.02). Second, thematic analysis of the interview data confirmed that the VR system and reflections on the data fostered increased self-awareness among participants about social situations that trigger their anxiety, as well as the behaviors they exhibit during anxious moments. This increased self-awareness prompted the participants to recollect their related experiences in the real world and articulate anxiety management strategies. Furthermore, the insights uncovered motivated participants to engage in self-advocacy, as they wanted to share the insights with others. Conclusions: This study highlights the potential of VR simulations enriched with physiological and behavioral sensing as a valuable tool for augmenting self-efficacy in workplace social interactions for individuals with autism. Data reflection facilitated by physiological sensors helped participants with autism become more self-aware of their emotions and behaviors, advocate for their characteristics, and develop positive self-beliefs.

Urban collector roads are complex driving environments often encompassing both the mobility and the access road functions. In these conditions motorized traffic and vulnerable road users compete continually. Speed reduction measures may play a relevant role in these contexts, provided that such measures are also designed in compliance with the driver's capabilities and expectations. The paper describes a test procedure using driving simulation experiments, designed to evaluate the reconfiguration project of Via Pistoiese, an urban road collector located in Florence (Italy). The road improvement design consisted of several engineering treatments aimed to reduce and homogenize the driving speed, as well as to manage the co-existence of the different road users and mainly to protect pedestrians. The main focus of the research was to understand if the drivers' behaviour was according to the design hypothesis before the safety treatments are implemented in the real world. Due to the multiple engineering treatments included in the reconfiguration project, the evaluation of the overall safety effectiveness of the project rather than the single treatment safety impact was the main concern of the research study. In addition, the study aimed to assess the usefulness of the considered testing method to understand how to integrate road design with drivers' performances, especially in heterogeneous traffic environments where drivers' behaviour plays a decisive role in the success of the proposed design solutions. Fifty-eight participants drove through two immersive virtual environments, reproducing the existing configuration and the project reconfiguration, while data relating to different driving aspects were collected. Two analyses were performed. The first was focused on the analysis of the mean speed profiles and revealed that the considered engineering treatments are able to control the speeding behaviour without providing a too high discomfort to the drivers. The second analysis was finalized to evaluate the driver's behaviour approaching zebra crossing, evaluating the impact of countermeasures allowing the drivers to perceive in advance a critical situation (a pedestrian that suddenly crossed the street) and consequently to perform a smoother and safer manoeuvre. The experiments confirmed the validity of the considered engineering treatments, allowing expecting the improvement of the traffic safety in via Pistoiese, and support the usefulness of virtual reality experimentations to predict of the safety effectiveness of design solutions, taking into account the drivers' behaviour.

The ongoing discussion surrounding the incorporation of technology in education has persisted over time. While technology offers significant advantages, such as improved collaboration and access to quality educational materials, it also introduces complexities such as the digital divide and concerns about data privacy, awareness and appropriate use. VR presents opportunities for future teachers to practice decision-making skills in controlled environments, although its effectiveness varies depending on the context and user perceptions. Research indicates that 360 degrees videos enhance reflexivity, support practice and improve observation skills and content knowledge. However, the impact of viewing these videos individually versus in groups remains inconclusive. This study aims to explore students' perspectives on the use of primary school physical education (PE) 360 degrees video recordings and VR technology to enhance reflexivity. To this end, the theory of practice architectures was reviewed to provide a framework for analysing how educational practices interact with wider contexts, while another theory, reflection, helps to examine students' critical thinking and introspection. The study intervention involved fourth-year students at a Norwegian university, who observed 360 degrees recordings of physical education lessons using VR technology. Data were generated through these observations, which included the 360 degrees recordings and small group interviews, and were analysed using reflective thematic analysis. The results highlight the importance of group dynamics, and that the authenticity of VR experiences can foster motivation and reflection. These insights can inform the design of future educational approaches in physical education teacher education (PETE), emphasising the need for careful consideration of technological and pedagogical practices to support effective and innovative teaching and learning to enhance experience and teaching.

Studies on pseudo-force feedback have reported that tactile stimuli such as skin stretch and pressure can substitute force sensation. This effect has enabled the design of a compact haptic device. However, little is known about the effect of applying pressure to the palm in terms of force substitution and augmentation, especially regarding how active and passive pressure stimuli differ. This article examines the pseudo-force effect of pressure stimuli to the palm, focusing on how it is perceived when it is applied together with a force stimulus. The method of adjustment was utilized, by which participants voluntarily moved their hands to adjust the pressure and force stimuli. The participants did this such that they felt a force equivalent to that of the reference applied to the other hand, which induced only a force stimulus. The results showed that the force sensation was significantly changed by the pressure stimulus to the palm, showing the effect of force substitution and augmentation. Furthermore, we found that there is no significant difference between the active and passive stimuli.

The aim of the present study is to investigate interactions between vision and audition during a target acquisition task performed in a virtual environment. We measured the time taken to locate a visual target (acquisition time) signalled by auditory and/or visual cues in conditions of variable visual load. Visual load was increased by introducing a secondary visual task. The auditory cue was constructed using virtual three-dimensional (3D) sound techniques. The Visual cue was constructed in the form of a 3D updating arrow. The results suggested that both auditory and visual Cues reduced acquisition time as compared to an uncued condition. Whereas the visual cue elicited faster acquisition time than the auditory cue, the combination of the two cues produced the fastest acquisition time. The introduction of secondary visual task differentially affected acquisition time depending on cue modality. In conditions of high visual load, acquiring a target signalled by the auditory cue led to slower and more error-prone performance than acquiring a target signalled by either the visual cue alone or by both the visual and auditory cues. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

When interleaving multiple tasks, people are confronted with a decision of how to distribute a finite amount of time between several tasks, which defines the task-interleaving strategy. In some challenging task interleaving scenarios where accurate timing is essential, people perform worse than they could have. With the growing advancement of technology, such as augmented reality, it became possible to impact people's strategy and improve their performance. However, when augmenting visual input with additional visual content, the augmentation not only introduces the possible benefit but can also capture attentional resources. It is, thus, important to investigate how visual augmentation affects people's performance in cases when otherwise people underscore in their performance. In the current study, using a psychophysics approach, it was investigated how visual augmentation impacts the task-interleaving strategy and, thus, performance in a dual-task setting with unequal task importance. In a simple dynamic 3D environment, four visual augmentations were generated aiming to prompt the user when it is more beneficial score-wise to switch from one task to another. The mean duration on one task before the task switch, as well as the resulting total performance, were evaluated in combination with the gaze direction distribution. In terms of the strategy and the total performance, all augmentations showed an advantage compared to when augmentation was not present. Furthermore, an abrupt augmentation onset based on the individual response time of the participant was more beneficial score-wise for the strategy compared to a constantly present visual augmentation. However, it affected the natural gaze direction distribution indicating the allocation of attentional resources to the augmentation. The results of this study provide an insight into potential visual augmentation designs aiming to improve user's performance in a challenging dual-task interleaving setting.

We present a comprehensive procedure to simulate real-world scenes viewed through ophthalmic lenses. Such a method enables us to anticipate the effects on image formation of the following combined undesired optical defects typically found in ophthalmic lenses: blur, distortion, and chromatic aberration. Additionally, it helps in comparing the expected scenes seen with different lens designs. The procedure is based on the following steps: (1) to calculate the distortion and local dioptric matrix associated with a set of different gaze directions; ( 2) to estimate point spread functions (PSF) associated with these matrices; (3) to compute the joint action of distortion, chromatic aberration, and PSF field on the scenes. We illustrate this procedure with two +/- 5D spherical lenses: a moderately good performance lens and a highly degrading one. The method is suitable to evaluate ophthalmic lenses in a virtual reality framework. (C) 2017 Optical Society of America

Haptic displays can greatly facilitate manual control tasks. Their capacity of allowing the operator to perceive the desired dynamics is an important design parameter. However, attempts to evaluate haptic displays on the basis of what dynamics humans actually perceive are scarce. This paper proposes a two-step framework which incorporates the characteristics of human haptic perception into the evaluation of haptic displays. The first step is to evaluate the haptic display based on a recently developed model of the threshold for changes in the perception of system dynamics. It allows us to know the frequency spectrum in which a haptic device alters the operator's perception of the system dynamics. The second step is then to understand how the perceived dynamic distortions affect the operator's characterization of the system dynamics. Findings from recent psychophysical studies allow us to relate the changes in perception caused by the haptic device to changes in the perceived mechanical properties of the system. A numerical example illustrates how haptic displays can be evaluated using the proposed framework. Copyright (C) 2019. The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Computer Aided Process Planning (CAPP) links the design and manufacture of a machined product defining how the product itself will be manufactured. Decisions made during this phase can have a significant impact on product cost, quality and build time; therefore, it is important that process planners have intuitive tools to aid them in effectively creating process plans. However, in spite of being a strong research area, the actual application of CAPP systems in industry is limited and new modem 3D digital tools in this area have not been researched to any real degree. Traditional process planning is carried out either manually or via a CAPP interface and, from this activity, a set of instructions are generated for the shop floor. However, these CAPP processes can be time consuming and subject to inconsistencies. Current research seeks to automate the generation of work instructions by using previous designs and/or artificial intelligence. However, due to the complexity of manufacturing a wide range of products, the limited range of tools available and differing skills of the workforce, it is difficult to reach a generic solution for practical application. The novel pilot study given in this paper presents one of the first pieces of research comparing and contrasting a traditional manual approach to machined part process planning with an alternative haptic virtual environment. Within this, an operator can simulate the machining of a simple part using a virtual drilling and milling process via a haptic routing interface. All of the operator input is logged in the background with the system automatically generating shop floor instructions from this log file. Findings show that users found the virtual system to be more intuitive and required less mental workload than traditional manual methods. Also their perceptions for the future were that they would need less support for learning and would progress to final planning solutions more quickly.

Accurately modeling the intrinsic material-dependent damping property for interactive sound rendering is a challenging problem. The Rayleigh damping model is commonly regarded as an adequate engineering model for interactive sound synthesis in virtual environment applications, but this assumption has never been rigorously analyzed. In this paper, we conduct a formal evaluation of this model. Our goal is to determine if auditory perception of material under Rayleigh damping assumption is "geometry-invariant", i.e. if this approximation model is transferable across different shapes and sizes. First, audio recordings of same-material objects in various shapes and sizes are analyzed to determine if they can be approximated by the Rayleigh damping model with a single set of parameters. Next, we design and conduct a series of psychoacoustic experiments, in subjects evaluate if audio clips synthesized using the Rayleigh damping model are from the same material, when we alter the material, shape, and size parameters. Through both quantitative and qualitative evaluation, we show that the acoustic properties of the Rayleigh damping model for a single material is generally preserved across different geometries of objects consisting of homogeneous materials and is therefore a suitable, geometry-invariant sound model. Our study results also show that consistent with prior crossmodal expectations, visual perception of geometry can affect the auditory perception of materials. These findings facilitate the wide adoption of Rayleigh damping for interactive auditory systems and enable reuse of material parameters under this approximation model across different shapes and sizes, without laborious per-object parameter tuning.

The cognitive and computational neurosciences have developed neurorehabilitative tools able to treat suffering subjects from early symptoms, in order to give priority to a home environment. In this way, the curative treatment would not burden the hospital with excessive costs and the patient with psychological disorientation. Recent studies have shown the efficacy of video games on improving cognitive processes impaired by ageing's physiological effect, neurodegenerative or other diseases, with potential beneficial effects. The PERvasive game for perSOnalized treatment of cognitive and functional deficits associated with chronic and Neurodegenerative diseases (PERSON) project proposed new tools for cognitive rehabilitation, aiming to improve the quality of life for patients with cognitive impairments, especially at early stages, by the use of sophisticated, non-invasive technology. This article is an overview of game solutions for training cognitive abilities and it presents the tools developed within the PERSON project. These tools are serious games based on virtual reality, connected to a brain-computer interface based on electroencephalography (EEG) and to haptic devices. The project was born thanks to a strategic synergy between research and public health, to implement a technology for personalized medicine that relies on the cloud infrastructure of the REte di CAlcolo per SuperB ed altre applicazioni (ReCaS)-Bari data centre. PERSON developed a completely open source and innovative framework to interface the game device with the computational resources in the cloud. We exploited the container technology and the Software as a Service (SaaS) paradigm to implement a genetic algorithm that analyses the neural responses in EEG recordings. The paper focuses on technical aspects of the designed tools. A test was conducted on a few volunteers for the purpose of tuning the overall system. The paper does not contain results of a clinical trial as this is planned in a second testing phase, when the user's perception of the system will also be tested.

Augmented reality (AR) defines a new information-delivery paradigm by overlaying computer-generated information on the perception of the real world. AR-integrated robot has become an appealing concept in terms of enhanced human-robot interaction. Despite intensive research on AR, existing indoor location-based AR systems are vulnerable to attacks and can hardly meet the security and privacy requirements in practice. The problem of designing a secure AR framework to ensure the efficiency and privacy of location-based AR has not been sufficiently studied. In this paper, we holistically study this problem and propose EPAR, an efficient and privacy-aware AR framework for indoor location-based services. EPAR distinguishes itself from the existing work by being the first to address the issues of AR delivery in terms of system scalability, accuracy, privacy, and efficiency. First, an effective indoor location cloaking scheme is presented to safeguard user's privacy while improving system scalability and accuracy. Then, a novel privacy-aware localization scheme is proposed to hierarchically localize the user with privacy concerns. Finally, for the AR content delivery, a new authenticated data structure is tailored to save the data transmission cost and improve system efficiency. We implement EPAR and conduct extensive experiments in real-world scenarios. Evaluation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our EPAR system.

Survivors of severe Acquired Brain Injury (sABI) are often not afforded a fair chance of recovery. They can be considered as 'hopeless' cases and a drain on the health system. In addition, many of them are misdiagnosed: between 40% and 60% of persons diagnosed as being in a permanent vegetative state (PVS) are, indeed, conscious, often in a minimally conscious state (MCS). Although research has shown that, especially given the right support, there is virtually no limit to their recovery, they often do not recover to the level they could and within a reasonable timeframe because they are afforded a minimalistic treatment by the health system: food, water and medication. The An Saol Foundation was established in Ireland in 2017, with the mission of connecting recent research with current practices of rehabilitation. The aim of a three-year pilot by the An Saol Foundation, supported by the Irish Health Service Executive (HSE) is the co-design and implementation of living spaces for survivors of sABI and their families. The aim is to create an ecosystem of supports to enable the survivors of sABI and their families to live life to the full, using the latest technologies and engaging as fully as possible in community and cultural activities, to encourage a sense of liveness and co-presence, as well as to support all efforts at physical and communicative rehabilitation and engagement in the context of the whole community. An Saol has partnered with SMARTlab to develop a shared life lab for young people with sABI, to be co-located in a fully equipped SMART VR First lab providing the latest virtual and augmented reality training tools, soft robotics and haptic tools, and cobotics (companion robots for assisted living) so that survivors of young people with sABI can not only heal but can also experience a rich set of activities, sports, music and creative expression in the virtual world, and can train over time to co-create new content for these healing modalities for use by others. We have selected a co-researcher with sABI to co-design all aspects of this project with us. Padraig Schaler has already taken part in an experiment to fly a drone to map rough terrain by remote, and has worn a VR headset to help test the weight and possible customization we will need to make as the project progresses. A team is building around Padraig, with experts in sensorial perception and sonic design, eye gaze and brain controlled multimodal interfaces, VR, AR, drones and robotics sharing their expertise around this Alpha user and co-inventor.

This study proposes a cyber-physical interconnection method for computational design and robotic construction in a wooden architectural realm. It aims to provide a highly efficient, flexible, and adaptive design-construction approach by continuously updating digital models and physical operations according to the locally sourced materials. A perception-modeling system to scan the source materials on-site and send their data simultaneously to design software was developed by using physical sensors and computational technologies in an innovative manner. The data was used for architectural programs to generate design outcomes and guide the robotic construction. The novelty of this study is to establish a real-time, bidirectional interaction mechanism between digital design and physical construction. The design outcome is no longer a fixed, predefined geometric model but a dynamic, data-driven model which would be updated by material conditions on-site. The construction robot is able to make synchronous adjustment automatically in coordination with the dynamic design. The success of the iterative perceiving-simulating-updating loop was demonstrated by building two pavilions. Z8 3

The sense of touch is underused in today's virtual reality systems due to lack of wearable, soft, mm-scale transducers to generate dynamic mechanical stimulus on the skin. Extremely thin actuators combining both high force and large displacement are a long-standing challenge in soft actuators. Sub-mm thick flexible hydraulically amplified electrostatic actuators are reported here, capable of both out-of-plane and in-plane motion, providing normal and shear forces to the user's fingertip, hand, or arm. Each actuator consists of a fluid-filled cavity whose shell is made of a metalized polyester boundary and a central elastomer region. When a voltage is applied to the annular electrodes, the fluid is rapidly forced into the stretchable region, forming a raised bump. A 6 mm x 6 mm x 0.8 mm actuator weighs 90 mg, and generates forces of over 300 mN, out-of-plane displacements of 500 mu m (over 60% strain), and lateral motion of 760 mu m. Response time is below 5 ms, for a specific power of 100 W kg(-1). In user tests, human subjects distinguished normal and different 2-axis shear forces with over 80% accuracy. A flexible 5 x 5 array is demonstrated, integrated in a haptic sleeve.

Learning about cultural differences between individuals is a challenging topic because people from many different countries have to work, live, and communicate together, but everyone's background affects their perception. Herein, we create a virtual cultural learning assistance system that can help people learn and interact with cultural agents and learn conversational skills. Learning from simulated first- and third -person camera points of view (POVs) is a method through which participants obtain different perspectives and understandings of a situation. This experiment was conducted with Japanese participants, who were asked to learn from and interact with a digital avatar acting as a customer agent and shopkeeper at the Thai night market. The behavior of the customer agent and the shopkeeper avatar were designed based on the Hofstede cultural dimension with Thai cultural values (Individualism:20, Masculinity:34, Uncertainty avoidance:64). A significant difference between first- and third -person POV groups was found on the individualism dimension (IDV). Results showed that most Japanese participants in the third person POV group understood the Thai culture IDV better from our simulation than those in the first-person POV group. Furthermore, participants from both first- and third -person POV groups gave a similar score for Thai culture in the masculinity and uncertainty avoidance dimensions. Thus, this scenario and setting were suitable for learning and understanding Thai cultural communication at the night flea market in both first- and third-person POVs.

This study explores the impact of full windshield head-up display (FHUD) cues on the visual attention allocation of drivers under different scenarios. Forty-eight participants with driving experience were randomly divided into two groups and asked to drive on a preset route in various virtual driving scenarios created in advance. The full windshield highlights situational cues related to the driving task, such as lane lines, safe vehicle distance warnings, navigation guidance and pedestrian cues. Regarding the perception of situational cues, the number of fixations and mean fixation duration with FHUD were lower than those without FHUD. Furthermore, the dwell time percentage of the driver's forward view with FHUD was larger than that without FHUD, and the dwell time percentage on both sides was smaller than that without FHUD. In conclusion, FHUD may help drivers more effectively perceive cues and improve drivers' visual attention allocation. Practitioner summary: FHUD may affect drivers' attention while driving. We examined the effect of FHUD on number of fixations, fixation duration and dwell time percentage in the area of interest under different weather scenarios. Experimental results indicated that FHUD could improve drivers' visual attention allocation and help drivers more effectively perceive cues. Z8 1

We investigate the role of contact location information on the perception of local features during contour following in a virtual environment. An absolute identification experiment is conducted under force-alone and force-plus-contact-location conditions to investigate the effect of the contact location information. The results show that the participants identify the local features significantly better in terms of higher information transfer for the force-plus-contact-location condition, while no significant difference was found for measures of the efficacy of contour following between the two conditions. Further data analyses indicate that the improved identification of local features with contact location information is due to the improved identification of small surface features.

This paper investigates spatiotemporal tactile perceptive characteristics and biomechanical properties of human skin and considers their implications for the design of tactile displays. Three separate experiments were conducted. First, we measured vibrotactile thresholds as a function of frequency of vibration, using a cylindrical contactor of 0.7mm diameter. The results of our experiment showed similar trends to that of previous physiological results that used a larger contactor. In the second experiment, vibrotactile spatial acuities were investigated. Two-point localization errors were measured on the tip of the index finger and on thenar eminence as a function of frequency of vibration. The results show that human skin is sensitive to spatial differences at the frequency bands of 1-3Hz and 18-32Hz. The subjects' spatial acuities gradually decreased as the frequency of vibration increased over 50Hz. In the third experiment, impedances of human skin were measured as a function of frequency of vibration. From these results, we discuss the implications in the designing of spatially distributed tactile displays and methods for texture display.

This study was designed to explore the effects of color and light on indoor wayfinding and the subjective judgments of those perceiving the environment. Furthermore, how problems experienced in buildings with complex floor plans and successive spaces are addressed using variables such as color, brightness, and correlated color temperature through a desktop virtual reality environment. The experiment was conducted with the participation of 102 university students who experienced the indoor environments with various color and light variables, and evaluated these environments using concrete concepts like clear/blurry, attractive/unattractive, navigable/unnavigable and inviting/repellent. The scores for attractiveness and remembrance of warm colors were found to be higher than those for other colors, and the median scores for the positive perception of correlated color temperature were found to be higher than those concerning high and low level temperatures. However, it was confirmed that the use of warm and cool colors in indoor environments with low light levels were not taken into consideration by users of a space and were perceived negatively. Moreover, it was determined that compared to the males, females preferred high brightness levels. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Mixed reality computing merges user perception of the environment with digital information. As we move from flatscreen computing toward head-mounted computing, the necessity for developing alternative interactions and user flows becomes more evident. Activity theory provides a holistic overview of user interactions and motives. In this work in progress, we propose Action Sandbox Workspace as an interaction framework for the future of MR systems by focusing on action-centric interactions rather than application-centric interactions, aiming to bridge the gap between user goals and system functionalities in everyday tasks. By integrating the ontology of actions, user intentions, and context and connecting it to spatial data mapping, this forward-looking framework aims to create a contextually adaptive user interaction environment. The recent development in large language models (LLMs) has made the implementation of this interaction flow feasible by enabling inference and decision-making based on text-based descriptions of a user's state and intentions with data and actions users have access to. We propose this approach as a future direction for developing mixed reality platforms and integrating AI in interacting with computers.

BACKGROUND: Most of the commercially available virtual reality-based laparoscopic simulators do not effectively evaluate combined psychomotor and force-based laparoscopic skills. Consequently, the lack of training on these critical skills leads to intraoperative errors. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of the novel virtual reality-based simulator, this study analyzed the combined psychomotor (i.e., motion or movement) and force skills of residents and expert surgeons. The study also examined the effectiveness of real-time visual force feedback and tool motion during training. DESIGN: Bimanual fundamental (i.e., probing, puffing, sweeping, grasping, and twisting) and complex tasks (i.e., tissue dissection) were evaluated. In both tasks, visual feedback on applied force and tool motion were provided. The skills of the participants while performing the early tasks were assessed with and without visual feedback. Participants performed 5 repetitions of fundamental and complex tasks. Reaction force and instrument acceleration were used as metrics. SETTING: Surgical Gastroenterology, Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital; Institute of Surgical Gastroenterology, Madras Medical College and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. PARTICIPANTS: Residents (N = 25; postgraduates and surgeons with <2 years of laparoscopic surgery) and expert surgeons (N = 25; surgeons with >4 and <= 10 years of laparoscopic surgery). RESULTS: Residents applied large forces compared with expert surgeons and performed abrupt tool movements (p < 0.001). However, visual + haptic feedback improved the performance of residents (p < 0.001). In complex tasks, visual + haptic feedback did not influence the applied force of expert surgeons, but influenced their tool motion (p < 0.001). Furthermore, in complex tissue sweeping task, expert surgeons applied more force, but were within the tissue damage limits. In both groups, exertion of large forces and abrupt tool motion were observed during grasping, probing or pulling, and tissue sweeping maneuvers (p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Modern day curriculum-based training should evaluate the skills of residents with robust force and psychomotor-based exercises for proficient laparoscopy. Visual feedback on force and motion during training has the potential to enhance the learning curve of residents. (C) 2016 Association of Program Directors in Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

When architects design a space and want to provoke reactions of surprise, relaxation, sadness, or excitement in users, how they combine the architectural characteristics of form, materials or light will influence these emotional reactions. The possibility of combining architectural elements is so vast and complex that it requires constant study and testing by the architect to achieve the reaction, sensation, or emotion he is trying to produce. This article results from preambular research that aims to create a methodological working framework that allows the development of a continuous study of the systematic relationship between different architectural features and emotional responses. As a main result, the proposed framework allows for obtaining emotional reactions related to architectural spaces, obtained through biosensors or self-report surveys, which feed the inference engine developed through the Kansei method. It is expected that the compilation of future studies based on this framework can be consulted as a guide or as an inspiration to read the built/designed spaces and/or open new possibilities and perspectives of spaces and architectural forms in the relationship with the human being. In the end, a comic narrative synthesizes the content of this article visually, having Le Corbusier as the main character.

Purpose- This study researched the effects on the perceptual evaluations of participants for the physical environmental factors of caf & eacute;s using curvilinear, rectilinear, and mixed forms to provide for the spatial states of belonging, to increase the pleasures, and to extend the periods of remaining in the space. Design/methodology/approachThis study used virtual reality (VR) technology to model the caf & eacute;s designed by using curvilinear, rectilinear and mixed forms as an experimental environment. After experiencing the virtual images of the experimental spaces, participants filled out a "spatial perception" questionnaire. Perceptual evaluations of 415 participants regarding the environmental factors of caf & eacute;s designed using curvilinear, linear and mixed forms were analyzed in a computer environment. Findings- According to the analysis of the questionnaire data, the caf & eacute;s using mixed forms were perceived as more positive for the factors of appeal (inviting, restful, warm and sincere), planning (well-planned) and space freedom (roomy, uncluttered, uncrowded, large, wide and free space) compared with the caf & eacute;s using curvilinear and rectilinear forms. Furthermore, the caf & eacute;s using curvilinear forms were perceived as more positive for all elements compared with the caf & eacute;s using rectilinear forms. However, there was a more negative approach in the perceptual evaluations of participants connected to increases in level of education. Originality/value- The research results clearly demonstrated that the different interior and furniture forms frequently encountered in caf & eacute;s cause significant effects on users' perceptual evaluations. Z8 0

Changing daily wound dressings provokes a substantial amount of pain in patients with severe burn wounds. Pharmacological analgesics alone often are inadequate to solve this problem. This study explored whether immersive virtual reality (VR) can reduce the procedural pain and anxiety during an entire wound care session and compared VR to the effects of standard care and other distraction methods. Nineteen inpatients ages 8 to 65 years (mean, 30 years) with a mean TBSA of 7.1% (range, 0.5-21.5%) were studied using a within-subject design. Within 1 week of admission, standard care (no distraction), M or another self-chosen distraction method was administered during the wound dressing change. Each patient received the normal analgesic regimen. Pain was measured with visual analog thermometer scores, and anxiety was measured with the state-version of the Spiel-berger State Trait Anxiety Inventory. After comparing different distraction methods, only VR and television showed significant pain reductions during wound dressing changes. The effects of VR were superior, but not statistical significant, to that of television. Thirteen of 19 patients reported clinically meaningful (33% or greater) reductions in pain during VR distraction. No side effects were reported. No correlations were found between the reduction in pain ratings and patient variables like age, sex, duration of hospital stay, or percentage of (deep) burns. There was no significant reduction of anxiety ratings.

A prototype near-field virtual environment system is described that incorporates a CrystalEyes stereoscopic display (viewed in a mirror), a PHANToM manipulandum, and a stereo auditory display. The apparatus, which was designed to achieve registration of three sensory modalities (visual, haptic, and auditory), has a wide range of applications and has been used for both psychophysics and training research. Calibration-verification experiments are described in which human subjects positioned a physical probe attached to the manipulandum so that it appeared to coincide with a visual target on the stereoscopic display. The readings from the manipulandum and the calculated positions of the targets corresponded roughly within +/-0.5 cm over a large volume, although differences greater than 1 cm were observed near the sides of the workspace. The calibration of the manipulandum was tested independently on the z axis (running through the center of the workspace), and the perceived depth of the targets (probe z coordinate) was found to agree with the calculated depth within the accuracy of the measurements (+/-0.4 cm). Some subjects had poorer positioning resolution when the visual target was far from the plane of the display screen (although their mean response was unaffected), and we hypothesize that this may have been caused by the different levels of accommodation that were needed to view the physical probe and the displayed target.

Background. The goal of this study was to design and implement a novel surgical telementoring system called the System for Telementoring with Augmented Reality (STAR) that uses a virtual transparent display to convey precise locations in the operating field to a trainee surgeon. This system was compared with a conventional system based on a telestrator for surgical instruction. Methods. A telementoring system was developed and evaluated in a study which used a 1 X 2 between subjects design with telementoring system, that is, STAR or conventional, as the independent variable. The participants in the study were 20 premedical or medical students who had no prior experience with telementoring. Each participant completed a task of port placement and a task of abdominal incision under telementoring using either the STAR or the conventional system. The metrics used to test performance when using the system were placement error, number of focus shifts, and time to task completion. Results. When compared with the conventional system, participants using STAR completed the 2 tasks with less placement error (45 % and 68%) and with fewer focus shifts (86% and 44%), but more slowly (19% for each task). Conclusions. Using STAR resulted in decreased annotation placement error, fewer focus shifts, but greater times to task completion. STAR placed virtual annotations directly onto the trainee surgeon's field of view of the operating field by conveying location with great accuracy; this technology helped to avoid shifts in focus, decreased depth perception, and enabled fine-tuning execution of the task to match telementored instruction, but led to greater times to task completion.

Time delay in haptic telepresence arising from compression or communication alters the phase characteristics of the environment impedance. This paper describes how well a human operator can discriminate these changes in haptic environments. Three different environments are rendered on a haptic interface and manually excited by a human operator using sinusoidal movements. We find that time delay in haptic feedback can be discriminated starting from 15 ms in a pure damper environment, 36 ms in a spring system, and 72 ms when moving a damped inertia. We conclude that the discrimination thresholds increase with the absolute phase between velocity and force signals resulting from the remote environment characteristics. These results may benefit the human-centered design of high-fidelity haptic communication protocols and haptic filters.

Providing an intuitive interface for the actual use of brain-computer interface (BCI) can increase BCI users' convenience greatly. We explored the possibility that visual imagery can be used as a paradigm that may constitute a more intuitive, active BCI. To do so, electroencephalography (EEG) data were collected during visual perception and imagery experiments. Three image categories (object, digit, shape) and three different images per category were used as visual stimuli. EEG data from seven subjects were used in this work. Three types of visual perception/imagery EEG data were preprocessed for classification: raw time series data; time-frequency maps; and common spatial pattern (CSP). Five types of classifiers (EEGNet, 1D convolutional neural network (CNN), MultiRocket, MobileNet, support vector machine (SVM)) were applied to each applicable data type among the three preprocessed types. Thus, we investigated the feasibility of classifying three-category or nine-class visual perception/imagery over various classifiers and preprocessed data types. We found that the MultiRocket network showed the best classification performance: yielding approximately 57.02% (max 63.62%) for three-category classification in visual perception and approximately 46.43% (max 71.38%) accuracy for three-category classification in visual imagery. However, no meaningfully improved performance was achieved in the nine-class classification in either visual perception or imagery, although visual perception yielded slightly higher accuracy than visual imagery. From our extensive investigation, we found that visual perception and visual imagery data may be classified; however, it is somewhat doubtful whether either may be applicable to an actual BCI system. It is believed that introducing better-designed advanced deep learning networks together with more informative feature extractions may improve the performance of EEG visual perception/imagery classifications. In addition, a more sophisticated experimental design paradigm may enhance the potential to achieve more intuitive visual imagery BCI.

Haptic feedback is known to enhance the realism of an individual's interactions with objects in virtual environments. Wearable haptic devices, such as vibrotactile sleeves or armbands, can provide haptic feedback in a smaller and more lightweight form factor than haptic gloves that can be bulky and cumbersome to the wearer. In this article, we present tactile and squeeze bracelet interface (Tasbi), a multimodal haptic wristband that can provide radial squeeze forces around the wrist along with vibrotactile feedback at six discrete locations around the band. Tasbi implements a squeezing mechanism that minimizes tangential forces between the band's points of contact with the skin, instead of focusing the motor actuation to predominantly normal forces. Force sensing capacitors enable closed-loop control of the squeeze force, while vibration is achieved with linear resonant actuators. A detailed description of the design and experimental results demonstrating closed-loop control of squeeze cues provided by Tasbi is presented. Additionally, we present the results of psychophysical experiments that quantify user perception of the vibration and squeeze cues, including vibrotactile identification accuracy in the presence of varying squeeze forces, discrimination thresholds for the squeeze force, and an analysis of user preferences for squeeze actuation magnitudes.

Virtual reality (VR) is an emerging technology offering tremendous opportunities to aid gait rehabilitation. To this date, real walking with users immersed in virtual environments with head-mounted displays (HMDs) is either possible with treadmills or room-scale (overground) VR setups. Especially for the latter, there is a growing interest in applications for interactive gait training as they could allow for more self-paced and natural walking. This study investigated if walking in an overground VR environment has relevant effects on 3D gait biomechanics. A convenience sample of 21 healthy individuals underwent standard 3D gait analysis during four randomly assigned walking conditions: the real laboratory (RLab), a virtual laboratory resembling the real world (VRLab), a small version of the VRlab (VRLab-), and a version which is twice as long as the VRlab (VRLab+). To immerse the participants in the virtual environment we used a VR-HMD, which was operated wireless and calibrated in a way that the virtual labs would match the real-world. Walking speed and a single measure of gait kinematic variability (GaitSD) served as primary outcomes next to standard spatio-temporal parameters, their coefficients of variant (CV%), kinematics, and kinetics. Briefly described, participants demonstrated a slower walking pattern (-0.09 +/- 0.06 m/s) and small accompanying kinematic and kinetic changes. Participants also showed a markedly increased gait variability in lower extremity gait kinematics and spatio-temporal parameters. No differences were found between walking in VRLab+ vs. VRLab-. Most of the kinematic and kinetic differences were too small to be regarded as relevant, but increased kinematic variability (+57%) along with increased percent double support time (+4%), and increased step width variability (+38%) indicate gait adaptions toward a more conservative or cautious gait due to instability induced by the VR environment. We suggest considering these effects in the design of VR-based overground training devices. Our study lays the foundation for upcoming developments in the field of VR-assisted gait rehabilitation as it describes how VR in overground walking scenarios impacts our gait pattern. This information is of high relevance when one wants to develop purposeful rehabilitation tools.

In the era of future mobility within Transportation 5.0, autonomy and cooperation across all road users and smart infrastructure stand as the key features to enhance transportation safety, efficiency, and sustainability, supported by cooperative perception, decision-making and planning, and control. An accurate and robust localization system plays a vital role in enabling these modules for future mobility and is constrained by environmental uncertainties and sensing limitations. To achieve precise and resilient localization in this new era, this letter introduces emerging technologies including edge computing, hybrid data-driven and physical model approaches, foundation models as well as parallel intelligence, that are beneficial for next-generation localization systems. On top of these key technologies, by integrating real-world testing and digital twin technology, we further put forward a Decentralized Autonomous Service (DAS)-based cooperative localization framework for future mobility systems to enhance the resilience, robustness, and safety of transportation systems.

Motion controlling technology allows game players to interact with video games using kinesthetic body motions that replicate real-world activities. A 2x2 fully crossed, between-subjects experiment, plus control group was designed to empirically test how the type of controller (motion controller vs. symbolic controller) and avatar customization (customized vs. not customized) contributed to affective and behavioral responses when playing the Tiger Woods PGA Tour video game. Findings indicated that using the motion controller led to better video game performance, in addition to better performance in a real-world putting task. Further, use of the motion controller led to greater perceptions of golf efficacy (indirectly through presence), and was positively correlated with liking of the video game, which in turn led to greater perceptions of liking of the game of golf. Theoretical and practical implications for these findings are discussed.

The transition process from industry 3.0 to 4.0 results in need to develop interconnected systems as well as new interfaces for human-computer interaction with these systems since it is not yet possible or allowed to automate these processes in all industrial contexts fully. Therefore, new technologies should be designed for the workers' interaction with the new systems of Industry 4.0. Mixed Reality (MR) is an alternative for the inclusion of workers, as it allows them to have their perception increased through information from the industrial environment. Consequently, the use of MR resources as a tool for performing collaborative activities in an industrial context is promising. This work aims to analyze how this strategy has been applied in the industry context and discuss its advantages, disadvantages, and characteristics that impact the performance workers in Industry 4.0.

Future challenges in teleoperation arise from a new complexity of tasks and from constraints in unstructured environments. In industrial applications as nuclear research facilities, the operator has to manipulate large objects whereas medical robotics requires extremely high precision. In the last decades, research optimized the transparency in teleoperation setups through accurate hardware, higher sampling rates, and improved sensor technologies. To further enhance the performance in telemanipulation, the idea of haptic augmentation has been briefly introduced in [Panzirsch et al., IEEE ICRA, 2015, pp. 312-317]. Haptic augmentation provides supportive haptic cues to the operator that promise to ease the task execution and increase the control accuracy. Therefore, an additional haptic interface can be added into the control loop. The present paper introduces the stability analysis of the resulting multilateral framework and equations for multi-DoF coupling and time delay control. Furthermore, a detailed analysis via experiments and a user study is presented. The control structure is designed in the network representation and based on passive modules. Through this passivity-based modular design, a high adaptability to new tasks and setups is achieved. The results of the user study indicate that the bimanual control brings large benefits especially in improving rotational precision.

Objective: Four head-related transfer function (HRTF) data sets were compared to determine the effect of HRTF measurement methodology on the localization of spatialized auditory stimuli. Background: Spatial audio interfaces typically require HRTF data sets to generate the spatialized auditory stimuli. HRTF measurement is accomplished using a variety of techniques that can require several nearly arbitrary decisions about methodology. The effects of these choices upon the resulting spatial audio interface are unclear. Method: Sixteen participants completed a sound localization task that included real-world, broadband stimuli spatialized at eight locations on the horizontal plane. Four different HRTF data sets were utilized to spatialize the stimuli: two publicly available HRTF data sets and two data sets obtained using different in-house measurement systems. All HRTFs; were obtained from the Knowles Electronics Mannequin for Acoustics Research. Results: Unsigned localization error and proportion of front/back reversals did not differ significantly across HRTF data sets. Poorest accuracy was observed in locations near the medial (front/back) axis of the listener, mainly because of the relatively large proportions of reversals at these locations. Conclusion: This study suggests that the particular generalized HRTF data set chosen for spatialization is of minimal importance to the localizability of the resulting stimuli. Application: This result will inform the design of many spatial audio interfaces that are based upon generalized HRTFs, including wayfaring devices, communication systems, and virtual reality systems. Z8 0

Focus cues specify inappropriate 3-D scene parameters in conventional displays because the light comes from a single surface, independent of the depth relations in the portrayed scene. This can lead to distortions in perceived depth, as well as discomfort and fatigue due to the differing demands on accommodation and vergence. Here we examine the efficacy of a stereo-display prototype designed to minimize these problems by using multiple image planes to present near-correct focus cues. Each eye's view is the sum of several images presented at different focal distances. Image intensities are assigned based on the dioptric distance of each image plane from the portrayed object, determined along visual lines. The stimulus to accommodation is more consistent with the portrayed depth than with conventional displays, but it still differs from the stimulus in equivalent real scenes. Compared to a normal, fixed-distance display, observers showed improved stereoscopic performance in different psychophysical tasks including speed of fusing stereoscopic images, precision of depth discrimination, and accuracy of perceived depth estimates. The multiple image-planes approach provides a practical solution for some shortcomings of conventional displays.

Both robotic and virtual agents could one day be equipped with social abilities necessary for effective and natural interaction with human beings. Although virtual agents are relatively inexpensive and flexible, they lack the physical embodiment present in robotic agents. Surprisingly, the role of embodiment and physical presence for enriching human-robot-interaction is still unclear. This paper explores how these unique features of robotic agents influence three major elements of human-robot face-to-face communication, namely the perception of visual speech, facial expression, and eye-gaze. We used a quantitative approach to disentangle the role of embodiment from the physical presence of a social robot, called Ryan, with three different agents (robot, telepresent robot, and virtual agent), as well as with an actual human. We used a robot with a retro-projected face for this study, since the same animation from a virtual agent could be projected to this robotic face, thus allowing comparison of the virtual agent's animation behaviors with both telepresent and the physically present robotic agents. The results of our studies indicate that the eye gaze and certain facial expressions are perceived more accurately when the embodied agent is physically present than when it is displayed on a 2D screen either as a telepresent or a virtual agent. Conversely, we find no evidence that either the embodiment or the presence of the robot improves the perception of visual speech, regardless of syntactic or semantic cues. Comparison of our findings with previous studies also indicates that the role of embodiment and presence should not be generalized without considering the limitations of the embodied agents.

During open surgery, a surgeon relies not only on the detailed view of the organ being operated upon and on being able to feel the fine details of this organ but also heavily relies on the combination of these two senses. In laparoscopic surgery, haptic feedback provides surgeons information on interaction forces between instrument and tissue. There have been many studies to mimic the haptic feedback in laparoscopic-related telerobotics studies to date. However, cutaneous feedback is mostly restricted or limited in haptic feedback-based minimally invasive studies. We argue that fine-grained information is needed in laparoscopic surgeries to study the details of the instrument's end and can convey via cutaneous feedback. We propose an exoskeleton haptic hand wearable which consists of five 4 x 4 miniaturized fingertip actuators, 80 in total, to convey cutaneous feedback. The wearable is described as modular, lightweight, Bluetooth, and WiFi-enabled, and has a maximum power consumption of 830 mW. Software is developed to demonstrate rapid tactile actuation of edges; this allows the user to feel the contours in cutaneous feedback. Moreover, to demonstrate the idea as an object displayed on a flat monitor, initial tests were carried out in 2D. In the second phase, the wearable exoskeleton glove is then further developed to feel 3D virtual objects by using a virtual reality (VR) headset demonstrated by a VR environment. Two-dimensional and 3D objects were tested by our novel untethered haptic hand wearable. Our results show that untethered humans understand actuation in cutaneous feedback just in a single tapping with 92.22% accuracy. Our wearable has an average latency of 46.5 ms, which is much less than the 600 ms tolerable delay acceptable by a surgeon in teleoperation. Therefore, we suggest our untethered hand wearable to enhance multimodal perception in minimally invasive surgeries to naturally feel the immediate environments of the instruments.

Memory problems are one of the most common symptoms of sport-related mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI), known as concussion. Surprisingly, little research has examined spatial memory in concussed athletes given its importance in athletic environments. Here, we combine functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a virtual reality (VR) paradigm designed to investigate the possibility of residual functional deficits in recently concussed but asymptomatic individuals. Specifically, we report performance of spatial memory navigation tasks in a VR environment and fMRI data in 15 athletes suffering from MTBI and 15 neurologically normal, athletically active age matched controls. No differences in performance were observed between these two groups of subjects in terms of success rate (94 and 92%) and time to complete the spatial memory navigation tasks (mean = 19.5 and 19.7 s). Whole brain analysis revealed that similar brain activation patterns were observed during both encoding and retrieval among the groups. However, concussed athletes showed larger cortical networks with additional increases in activity outside of the shared region of interest (ROI) during encoding. Quantitative analysis of blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal revealed that concussed individuals had a significantly larger cluster size during encoding at parietal cortex, right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and right hippocampus. In addition, there was a significantly larger BOLD signal percent change at the right hippocampus. Neither cluster size nor BOLD signal percent change at shared ROIs was different between groups during retrieval. These major findings are discussed with respect to current hypotheses regarding the neural mechanism responsible for alteration of brain functions in a clinical setting. Z8 2

Videogames often require players to control an avatar in order to act on the virtual world. In many cases, such as in fighting games, the avatar's body often shares biological features with the player's body, such as a human-like figure and a highly detailed and realistic movement. Many studies in social cognitive neuroscience focus on how humans understand biological actions, and in particular other humans' actions. Models and theories that put in tight relation perception, imagination and execution of actions have recently impacted the field of human cognition and provided a considerable paradigm shift. However, the impact of these theories has been largely focused on modern mimetic interfaces, such as virtual reality, but only slightly affect traditional interfaces even if they still comprise the large majority of the human-computer interaction. Fighting games mostly use non-mimetic interfaces, such as traditional gaming pads, so that the player needs to act with a very restricted range of movements, limited to fingers, hand, wrists and arms muscles. While the player's movements don't match the avatar movements, the in-game meanings of the button presses, i.e., command system, may facilitate or interfere with the ability to understand, plan and perform motor patterns on the input device. Here I provide a framework to better understand human-fighting game interaction, but relevant for all interactions with avatars, as well as experimental evidence of this approach validity by using the most successful fighting games: Tekken, Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat and Soulcalibur.

Spatial memory is impaired among persons with schizophrenia (SCZ). However, different strategies may be used to solve most spatial memory and navigation tasks. This study investigated the hypothesis that participants with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders (SSD) would demonstrate differential impairment during acquisition and retrieval of target locations when using a hippocampal-dependent spatial strategy, but not a response strategy, which is more associated with caudate function. Healthy control (CON) and SSD participants were tested using the 4-on-8 virtual maze (4/8VM), a virtual navigation task designed to differentiate between participants' use of spatial and response strategies. Consistent with our predictions, SSD participants demonstrated a differential deficit such that those who navigated using a spatial strategy made more errors and took longer to locate targets. In contrast, SSD participants who spontaneously used a response strategy performed as well as CON participants. The differential pattern of spatial-memory impairment in SSD provides only indirect support for underlying hippocampal dysfunction. These findings emphasize the importance of considering individual strategies when investigating SSD-related memory and navigation performance. Future cognitive intervention protocols may harness SSD participants' intact ability to navigate using a response strategy and/or train the deficient ability to navigate using a spatial strategy to improve navigation and memory abilities in participants with SSD. (c) 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

In many haptic applications, producing a sharp feeling of impact is crucial for high-fidelity force feedback rendering of virtual objects (VOs). Although suitable for rendering collision-rich haptic interactions, impulse-based methods are rarely used in a pure form. Instead, they are combined with penalty-based elements in different forms such as virtual couplings (VCs) and hybridization. In this paper, we first propose the direct impulse-based paradigm for rendering haptic contacts using a new sampled-data interpretation of the impact problem. Then, we cast this interpretation into a systematic framework entitled the generalized contact controller (GCC). This enables us to implement different contact rendering methods as controllers and to improve them by appropriating a wide array of analysis and design tools developed in the control field. We specifically show how to apply position and velocity corrections to the purely impulse-based contact controller for enhancing its energy and sustained contact characteristics, and how to add an antiwindup compensator (AWC) for meeting actuation limits. These propositions are validated via simulation and experiments, as well as via human perception studies. Results show the promising aspects of the proposed impulse-based methods for generating a sharper unfiltered feeling of rigid-body contacts even at low sampling rates.

Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate how individuals perceive and react to the involuntary demotion of a co-worker in their organisation. Design/methodology/approach The authors draw on 46 semi-structured in-depth interviews (23 dyads) with co-workers of demoted individuals. Findings The findings suggest that an individual's observation of the demotion of a co-worker has three stages: their perception of fairness, their emotional reaction and their behavioural reaction. The perception of fairness concerned issues of distributive, procedural, interpersonal and informational justice. The emotional responses identified were feelings of disappointment/disillusion, uncertainty, vulnerability and anger. Finally, the behavioural reactions triggered by their emotional responses included expressions of voice, loyalty, exit and adaptation. Originality/value Perceptions of (in)justice perpetrated on others stimulate emotional and behavioural responses, which impacts organisational functioning. Managers should therefore pay attention to the way a demotion is perceived, not only by those directly concerned, but also by co-workers as observers.

Two-interval two-alternative forced-choice discrimination experiments were conducted separately for sinusoidal and triangular textured surface gratings from which amplitude (i.e., height) discrimination thresholds were estimated. Participants (group sizes.n = 4 to 7) explored one of these texture types either by fingertip on real gratings (Finger real), by stylus on real gratings (Stylus real), or by stylus on virtual gratings (Stylus virtual). The real gratings were fabricated from stainless steel by an electrical discharge machining process while the virtual gratings were rendered via a programmable force-feedback device. All gratings had a 2.5-mm spatial period. On each trial, participants compared test gratings with 55, 60, 65, or 70 mu m amplitudes against a 50-mu m reference. The results indicate that discrimination thresholds did not differ significantly between sinusoidal and triangular gratings. With sinusoidal and triangular data combined, the average (mean +/- standard error) for the Stylus-real threshold (2.5 +/- 0.2 mu m) was significantly smaller (p < 0.01) than that for the Stylus-virtual condition (4.9 +/- 0.2 mu m). Differences between the Finger-real threshold (3.8 +/- 0.2 mu m) and those from the other two conditions were not statistically significant. Further studies are needed to better understand the differences in perceptual cues resulting from interactions with real and virtual gratings.

Traditionally, three dimension models have been used for building virtual worlds, and a data structure called the "scene graph" is often employed to organize these 3D objects in the virtual space. On the other hand, image-based rendering has recently been suggested as a probable alternative VR platform for its photo-realism, however, due to limited interactivity, it has only been used for simple navigation systems. To combine the merits of these two approaches to object/scene representations, this paper proposes for a scene graph structure in which both 3D models and various image-based scenes/objects can be defined, traversed, and rendered-together. In fact, as suggested by Shade et al. [1], these different representations can be used as different LOD's for a given object. For instance, an object might be rendered using a 3D model at close range, a billboard at an intermediate range, and as part of an environment map at far range. The ultimate objective of this mixed platform is to-breath more interactivity into the image based rendered VE's by employing 3D models as well. There are several technical challenges in devising such a platform: designing scene graph nodes for various types of image based techniques, establishing criteria for LOD/representation selection, handling their transitions, implementing appropriate interaction schemes, and correctly rendering the overall scene. Currently, we have extended-the scene graph structure of the Sense8's WorldToolKit(1), to accommodate new node types for environment maps, billboards, moving textures and sprites, "Tour-into-the-Picture" structure, and view interpolated objects. As for choosing the right LOD level, the usual viewing distance and image space criteria are used, however, the switching between the image and 3D model occurs at a distance from the user where the user starts to perceive the object's internal depth. Also, during interaction, regardless of the viewing distance, a 3D representation would be used, if it exists. Before rendering, objects are conservatively culled from the view frustum using the representation with the largest volume. Finally, we carried out experiments to verify the theoretical derivation of the switching rule and obtained positive results.

Construction equipment teleoperation is a promising solution when the site environment is hazardous to op-erators. However, limited situational awareness of the operator, especially under adverse visual conditions, impedes the implementation of construction equipment teleoperation. Virtual annotations (VAs) have great potential to improve an operator's situational awareness. The work presented in this paper investigates the effects of VA by comparing the teleoperation performances of an excavator between an experimental group (with VA) and a control group (without VA) in a virtual environment. Subjects in the experimental group made sig-nificantly fewer collisions under the adverse visual condition than the subjects in the control group with similar 3D gaming experience. It indicates that properly-designed VAs can help operators efficiently integrate and understand information from different visual sources. Some negative effects were also observed, such as in-creased time of completion and a trend of increased collision numbers on the back of the equipment. Speculation is that an operator will form a visual base and selectively integrate information from other visual sources when the cognitive load exceeds a limit. The results suggested a need to investigate further the mechanism of forming a visual base and the assessment of an operator's cognitive load. Z8 0

We study the ensemble of depth of field (DOF) images pertaining to continuously varying focal distance but with the position, angle and aperture of the camera fixed, called the DOF image sequence. It is shown that all member images of the ensemble can be approximated with good precision as a linear combination of few basis images. By exploiting the above newly discovered sparsity structure of DOF images, we develop a new coding scheme for DOF image sequences. The encoder works as a DOF image modeler; reciprocally the decoder acts as an ultra fast DOF image renderer. This coding scheme enables real-time generation of DOF videos that achieve realistic 3D perceptions via combined use of motion parallax and depth of field. The proposed new technique out-performs the image-based DOF rendering in image quality while having a lower complexity. The same sparsity of DOF images also inspires our design of a new computational display system that can offer multiview DOF video presentations to different users all on a common screen. Experimental results show practical values of this research in multiuser VR applications, in both aspects of content generation and presentation.

Our work for the first time evaluates the effectiveness of visual and acoustic warning systems in an accident situation using a realistic, immersive driving simulation. In a first experiment, 70 participants were trained to complete a course at high speed. The course contained several forks where a wrong turn would lead to the car falling off a cliff and crashing - these forks were indicated either with a visual warning sign for a first, no-sound group or with a visual and auditory warning cue for a second, sound group. In a testing phase, right after the warning signals were given, trees suddenly fell on the road, leaving the (fatal) turn open. Importantly, in the no-sound group, 18 out of 35 people still chose this turn, whereas in the sound group only 5 out of 35 people did so - the added sound therefore had a large and significant increase in situational awareness. We found no other differences between the groups concerning age, physiological responses, or driving experience. In a second replication experiment, the setup was repeated with another 70 participants without emphasis on driving speed. Results fully confirmed the previous findings with 17 out of 35 people in the no-sound group versus only 6 out of 35 in the sound group choosing the turn to the cliff. With these two experiments using a one-shot design to avoid pre-meditation and testing naive, rapid decision-making, we provide clear evidence for the advantage of visual-auditory in-vehicle warning systems for promoting situational awareness.

The scope of this paper is to present a works-in progress research project currently being developed at the University of Malta. The project brings together inter-faculty experience and expertise from the areas of education, ICT and digital arts to provide an alternative experience in teacher training. In the past decade, in Malta there has been a drive to provide a more inclusive education experience. Teachers in the classroom need to be able to relate with children having different levels of abilities, including those lying on the autism spectrum. Our proposal for this project is to bring a different narrative to a specific audience. One of the challenges, which teachers are facing in classrooms that have opened their doors to inclusion, is that of trying to understand and empathise with an autistic learner. Autism is a very complex condition that can manifest itself in a number of ways related to behaviour, communication and relationship with others. Parents of autistic children most often describe how difficult it is for someone who has never had the experience of living with an autistic child, to understand and empathise with how their children perceive the world around them. We believe that despite teacher training, teachers as well as learners go to class largely unprepared for the arrival of an autistic classmate because they cannot fully visualise the experience that a person with that condition lives through. Through this virtual experience we want to support a more sensorial approach to developing empathy with the condition of autism in a classroom setting. The scope of this project is to develop and deliver an app that combined with a virtual reality (VR) headset can take the users through a journey into the experiences of an autistic child in a classroom. Using narratives from parents of autistic children as well as experts in the field of autism and learning with autism, this project will focus on re-creating the classroom experience as perceived from the autistic learner's perceptions that include sights, sounds, actions and interactions. Questions that will be explored at subsequent stage in the project include: Will the VR have a visible impact on the teachers' empathy towards children with autism? How strong will the impact of the VR experience be on the teachers' ability to support learners with autism in the classroom?

Today's virtual reality (VR) applications such as gaming, multisensory entertainment, remote dining, and online shopping are mainly based on audio, visual, and touch interactions between humans and virtual worlds. Integrating the sense of taste into VR is difficult since humans are dependent on chemical-based taste delivery systems. This paper presents the Thermal Taste Machine, a new digital taste actuation technology that can effectively produce and modify thermal taste sensations on the tongue. It modifies the temperature of the surface of the tongue within a short period of time (from 25 degrees C to 40 degrees C while heating, and from 25 degrees C to 10 degrees C while cooling). We tested this device on human subjects and described the experience of thermal taste using 20 known (taste and non-taste) sensations. Our results suggested that rapidly heating the tongue produces sweetness, fatty/oiliness, electric taste, warmness, and reduces the sensibility for metallic taste. Similarly, cooling the tongue produced mint taste, pleasantness, and coldness. By conducting another user study on the perceived sweetness of sucrose solutions after the thermal stimulation, we found that heating the tongue significantly enhances the intensity of sweetness for both thermal tasters and non-thermal tasters. Also, we found that faster temperature rises on the tongue produce more intense sweet sensations for thermal tasters. This technology will be useful in two ways: First, it can produce taste sensations without using chemicals for the individuals who are sensitive to thermal taste. Second, the temperature rise of the device can be used as a way to enhance the intensity of sweetness. We believe that this technology can be used to digitally produce and enhance taste sensations in future virtual reality applications. The key novelties of this paper are as follows: 1. Development of a thermal taste actuation technology for stimulating the human taste receptors, 2. Characterization of the thermal taste produced by the device using taste-related sensations and non-taste related sensations, 3. Research on enhancing the intensity for sucrose solutions using thermal stimulation, 4. Research on how different speeds of heating affect the intensity of sweetness produced by thermal stimulation.

Augmented reality (AR) enables users to overlay new information over the real environment, allowing them to get a clear perception of physical systems or even to interact with them. AR is a powerful and promising tool in many areas, including engineering-related ones. Therefore, it has aroused growing interest in engineering education. The main objectives of this study are to examine engineering students' feedback and conceptual knowledge gain resulting from using an online AR app. The design and development of the app, named "AR DC circuit puzzle," was driven by the intention to familiarize students with AR, using a tool that addresses direct current circuits' concepts, a subject belonging to almost all undergraduate engineering syllabi. Through structural equation modeling, the analysis of the relationships between several psychological traits related to the use of the AR app revealed that attitude toward the use of AR is very positive and mostly driven by the value students perceived this app to have in the context of their engineering training. The use of a pre- and posttest methodology resulted in large average normalized gains and effect sizes, indicating conceptual knowledge gain. The current worldwide situation triggered the massive use of digital tools; hence, it can be anticipated that in the future, there will be a greater need for online learning resources. This study, involving a large sample of engineering students in three consecutive academic years, shows that the used online tool based on AR can engage students and, with the right strategy, can promote knowledge gain.

Significant depth judgment errors are common in augmented reality. This study presents a visualization approach for improving relative depth judgments in augmented reality. The approach uses auxiliary augmented objects in addition to the main augmentation to support ordinal and interval depth judgment tasks. The auxiliary augmentations are positioned spatially near real-world objects, and the location of the main augmentation can be deduced based on the relative depth cues between the augmented objects. In the experimental part, the visualization approach was tested in the "X-ray" visualization case with a video see-through system. Two relative depth cues, in addition to motion parallax, were used between graphical objects: relative size and binocular disparity. The results show that the presence of auxiliary objects significantly reduced errors in depth judgment. Errors in judging the ordinal location with respect to a wall (front, at, or behind) and judging depth intervals were reduced. In addition to reduced errors, the presence of auxiliary augmentation increased the confidence in depth judgments, and it was subjectively preferred. The visualization approach did not have an effect on the viewing time.

We present a novel method of combining eye tracking with specially designed virtual environments to provide objective evidence of navigational strategy selection. A simple, inexpensive video camera with an easily built infrared LED array is used to capture eye movements at 60 Hz. Simple algorithms analyze gaze position at the start of each virtual maze trial to identify stimuli used for navigational orientation. To validate the methodology, human participants were tested in two virtual environments which differed with respect to features usable for navigation and which forced participants to use one or another of two well-known navigational strategies. Because the environmental features for the two kinds of navigation were clustered in different regions of the environment (and the video display), a simple analysis of gaze-position during the first (i.e., orienting) second of each trial revealed which features were being attended to, and therefore, which navigational strategy was about to be employed on the upcoming trial. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Owing to the fact that the number and complexity of machines is increasing in Industry 4.0, the maintenance process is more time-consuming and labor-intensive, which contains plenty of refined maintenance operations. Fortunately, human-robot collaboration (HRC) can integrate human intelligence into the collaborative robot (cobot), which can realize not merely the nimble and sapiential maintenance operations of personnel but also the reliable and repeated maintenance manipulation of cobots. However, the existing HRC maintenance lacks the precise understand of the maintenance intention, the efficient HRC decision-making for executing robotized maintenance tasks (e.g., repetitive manual tasks) and the convenient interaction interface for executing cognitive tasks (e.g., maintenance preparation and guidance job). Hence, a mixed perception-based human-robot collab-orative maintenance approach consisting of three-hierarchy structures is proposed in this paper, which can help reduce the severity of the mentioned problems. In the first stage, a mixed perception module is proposed to help the cobot recognize human safety and maintenance request according to human actions and gestures separately. During the second stage, an improved online deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-enabled decision-making module with the asynchronous structure and the function of anti-disturbance is proposed in this paper, which can realize the execution of robotized maintenance tasks. In the third stage, an augmented reality-assisted (AR) user-friendly interaction interface is designed to help the personnel interact with the cobot and execute the auxiliary maintenance task without the limitation of spatial and human factors. In addition, the auxiliary of maintenance operation can also be supported by the AR-assisted visible guidance. Finally, comparative nu-merical experiments are implemented in a typical machining workshop, and the experimental results show a competitive performance of the proposed HRC maintenance approach compared with other state-of-the-art methods.

Nowadays, haptic feedback technology has been applied to many applications to help users acquiring more information concerning surrounding environments. In this research, a real-time teleoperation system was developed to bring vibrotactile sensation concerning object surface texture from a remote location to the local users. A force sensor and a PVDF sensor were used to design a data recording device, which was attached to a remote slave robot arm, for recording physical surface texture information. Based on the different sensitivity frequency ranges of the mechanoreceptors in human glabrous skin, a novel tactile rendering device was designed to trigger frequency-channel-segregated vibrotactile stimuli in the master's side. Two bending piezoelectric actuators were used to trigger different stimulation intensities with different frequency ranges. To examine the efficacy of the teleoperation system, a tactile discrimination test was conducted. Users were asked to match the simulated surface textures with physical surface textures. The correctness of the discrimination test was about 87.5%. The results also showed that the developed system can produce realistic remote surface textures in real time.

ICTs offer numerous dynamic tools able to provide educational activities that did not exist or could not be implemented in real classes. Their adoption in the educational procedure is not only a significant innovation but an interactive process that affects our perception about learning and teaching. At the same time the application of ICTs in education is being affected through boosting further research on the field. ICTs in education lead more and more researchers to the adoption of constructivism learning theories within the context of distance and electronic learning. LMSs, like Moodle, which are based on the educational concept of social constructivism along with virtual worlds that encompass most of the VLEs features, can be utilized for educational purposes. More specifically, VWs that implement constructivism and collaborative educational methods trigger the learners offering an appropriate environment through which anyone can acquire qualitative knowledge, interact with other learners or educators and actively participate in knowledge evolution. It should also be mentioned that VWs are not a substitute of existing educational technologies, but a mean to support learner engagement. The interconnection of a popular LMS (like Moodle) with VWs (like OpenSim) is not only important but interesting too. The interconnection can upgrade the existing capabilities offered by LMSs and VWs. That is the reason behind choosing to study the potential of Sloodle as a method for bringing together Moodle and OpenSim. At this time, research and development around Sloodle focuses on getting advantage of the characteristics met in both environments for benefit of the educational procedure. Through a detailed analysis of Sloodle we conclude that it gathers a rich set of tools in order to interconnect Moodle courses with OpenSim virtual worlds. The interconnection focuses on combining Moodle characteristics (i.e. structured courses, chatting, projects assignment, quizzes etc) with virtual world characteristics (i.e. avatars, configuration potential, interaction, communication, immersion). In conclusion, an experimental virtual class was setup on OpenSim and Moodle platforms as a feasibility study. Our work also presented the necessary technological infrastructure for future research on the field of VW supported LMSs. Next steps, should attempt to measure and analyze user adoption of such an innovative technology as Sloodle in order to pave the way for future platform enhancements that will be user-driven and will follow their needs.

Today, urban planning processes involve many stakeholders and efficient dialogue tools are needed to support communication in transdisciplinary environments. The aim of our study is to identify visualization challenges in urban planning. Based on a state of the art study and a thematic analysis of 114 articles, published in 2004-2014 and found through snowball sampling, the development and implementation of digital visualization tools for dialogue are discussed. A wide range of examples of visualization tools for dialogue has been found; either based on 2D maps, 3D environments or gaming. The initiators of the development originate from different disciplines, such as geographic information (GI) science, computer graphics, 3D modelling, Virtual Reality, interaction design and urban planning. There has been an increasing amount of usability studies during recent years. There is a tendency for the usability studies to have gone from experimental and prototype studies to more and more concern real planning processes and implementation. Studies of implemented tools in real planning processes are, however, still rare. Gaming appears more and more frequently. Challenges are related to integration of qualitative and quantitative data, representation of data as regard appropriate levels of realism and detailing, as well as the user's experience and the appearance of the digital models. There is a need to consider how we can achieve the full potential of visualization tools, including optimal effectiveness of visualization tools and processes for dialogue as well as how they can be implemented. Organizational preparedness is necessary, including clear ownership, allocation of resources for maintenance, competence and access to tools and technology.

Introduction: The main goal of this study was to produce an adaptable learning platform using virtual learning and distributed simulation, which can be used to train health care workers, across a wide geographical area, key safety messages regarding infection prevention control (IPC). Methods: A situationally responsive agile methodology, Scrum, was used to develop a distributed simulation module using short 1-week iterations and continuous synchronous plus asynchronous communication including end users and IPC experts. The module contained content related to standard IPC precautions (including handwashing techniques) and was structured into 3 distinct sections related to donning, doffing, and hazard perception training. Outcome: Using Scrum methodology, we were able to link concepts applied to best practices in simulation-based medical education (deliberate practice, continuous feedback, self-assessment, and exposure to uncommon events), pedagogic principles related to adult learning (clear goals, contextual awareness, motivational features), and key learning outcomes regarding IPC, as a rapid response initiative to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Gamification approach has been used to map learning mechanics to enhance user engagement. Conclusions: The developed IPC module demonstrates how high-frequency, low fidelity simulations can be rapidly designed using scrum-based agile methodology. Analytics incorporated into the tool can help demonstrate improved confidence and competence of health care workers who are treating patients within an Ebola virus disease outbreak region. These concepts could be used in a range of evolving disasters where rapid development and communication of key learning messages are required. Z8 0

BACKGROUND: Manual skill is important for surgeons, but current methods to evaluate sensory-motor skills in applicants to a surgical residency are limited. OBJECTIVE: To develop a method of testing sensory-motor skill using objective and reproducible virtual reality simulation. METHODS: We designed a set of tests on a 3-dimensional surgical simulator with head and arm tracking, colocalization, and haptic feedback: (1) "trajectory planning in a simulated vertebra," ie, 3-dimensional memory and orientation; "hemostasis in the brain," ie, motor planning, sequence, timing, and precision; and "choose the softest object," ie, haptic perception. We also derived a weighted combined score for all tasks. RESULTS: Of the 55 consecutive applicants to a neurosurgery residency approached, 46 performed at least 1 task, and 36 performed all tasks. For the trajectory planning task, the distance from target ranged from 3 to 30 mm, with 25 of 36 in the 6- to 18-mm range. In the motor planning test, the duration between cauterization attempts ranged between 5 and 22.5 seconds, peaking at 10 to 12.5 seconds in 15 of 36 participants. In the haptic perception test, linear regression demonstrated increased variability in performance with increasing difficulty of task (R-2 = 0.6281). In all tests, performance followed a roughly bell-shaped curve. The combined weighted score of all tests demonstrated a better bell curve distribution, with scores ranging from 0.275 to 0.71 (mean, 0.47; median, 0.4775; SD, 0.1174). CONCLUSION: Our study represents a first step in the direction of an objective, standard, computer-scored test of motor and haptic ability. Z8 1

The U.S. Army CCDC C5ISR Night Vision and Electronic Sensors Directorate is researching the use of augmented reality (AR) technologies to improve the situational awareness and decision-making capabilities of EO/IR sensor operators. A major research requirement for such technologies involves defining the accuracy of AR information required to improve human performance for tasks related to EO/IR sensors, as AR systems may unintentionally provide inaccurate information to operators, which may be worse than providing no information at all. We designed a simulation to assess human performance during a vehicle identification task (using infrared imagery) when the operator receives aid via an AR system. U.S. Soldiers, trained to identify vehicles using infrared sensors, viewed images of the vehicles at different ranges in blocks while a simulated AR system attempted to identify each vehicle. Each block of images possessed an inherent level of AR accuracy (either 100%, 75%, or 50%). Performance with AR was compared to baseline performance (i.e., completing the task with no AR assistance). We further explored human performance by examining time-constrained decisions with AR. While perfect AR information was generally used effectively by participants, AR mistakes progressively increased human errors and slowed response times. Human performance varied as the range to the target increased, indicating greater dependency on the AR system as the task became more difficult. Time constraints reduced identification accuracy and usually affected unaided and aided performance similarly. Our work demonstrates the importance of simulation as a tool for understanding the effects of AR on military task performance.

Digital avatars have become indispensable in the digital age. In Japan, virtual characters using illustration-style avatars have gained popularity and is generating large economic impact. However, the creation of such avatars is a time-consuming and costly process that requires a great deal of expertise. To support avatar creation, research of automatic generation of character design and textures for 3D models have emerged. However, deep learning-based generative models sometimes synthesize corrupted outputs. Methods to detect collapsed outputs from a generative model has not been explored, and users of the generator needs to manually exclude such outputs. In this paper, we propose a method to extract high-quality images from a set of synthetic illustrations, generated by a deep learning model, based on the degree of distortion of the images. As it is difficult to prepare real-world distorted images to train a distortion recognition model, we propose a simple procedure to create pseudo-distorted images. Experimental results showed superior results of the proposed method in distinguishing between human-drawn images and generated images, compared to baseline methods. Furthermore, we sorted the generated images using the confidence level of the trained distortion detection model, and qualitatively confirmed that the proposed method produces results closer to human perception.

Research suggests that the deficits characterizing dyslexia may also be associated with superior visuospatial abilities. Other research suggests that superior visuospatial abilities of people with dyslexia may not have been so far identified because of the lack of appropriate tests of real-life spatial ability. A recent small-scale study found that visuospatial superiority was evident in men with dyslexia. This study assessed the visuospatial ability of adolescents with dyslexia in order to determine whether these adolescents performed better on a pseudo real-life visuospatial test than did their nondyslexic peers. Forty-two adolescents took part in the study. There was an equal numerical split between the experimental and control groups. The experimental group all had a diagnosis of dyslexia by an educational psychologist or specialist teacher. Visuospatial ability was assessed using the Recall of Designs and the Pattern Construction subtests from the British Ability Scales (2nd edition; BAS-11) together with a computer-generated virtual environment test. The assessments were administered in a counterbalanced order. Adolescents with dyslexia tended to perform less well than their nondyslexic peers on the BAS-11 tests; however, this difference was not statistically significant. For the computer-generated virtual environment test (pseudo real-life measure), statistically significant higher scores were achieved by the dyslexic group. These findings suggest that adolescents with dyslexia may exhibit superior visuospatial strengths on certain pseudo real-life tests of spatial ability. The usefulness of these findings is discussed in relation to possible implications for assessment and educational intervention programs for adolescents with dyslexia.

Computer-graphics and especially virtual 3D worlds evolve to important tools for digital cartography, where the main aim of efficient spatial communication rules processes of conception, design and dissemination. This paper investigates the enhancement of visual spatial relations in virtual 3D worlds. which's limitation on standard displays is a main drawback of digital cartography. The main limitations of digital cartography concern the extension of viewing plane and its resolution, which have impact on information depth of the map content, transmitting an overview. thus the highlighting of spatial relations and additional request for cognitive load. These drawbacks are not only limited to 2D maps, but are also existing in virtual 3D environments, where additional geometric characteristics, like perspective distortions, multiple scales or overriding, may influence a correct extraction of spatial-related content. On the other hand these specific geometric disadvantages should he formulated as benefit of 3D. especially when infinite numbers of scale call be combined in a "natural way" or spatial content becomes extracted by native interaction. One main limitation of digital presentations generally persists: the limitation of the presentation area on standard displays, which leads to a very restricted overview and fewer visible relations of spatial content. View-port variations that modify perspective and/or orthographic projections are one possibility to enhance rendering method, in a way that the main disadvantages of regular perspective views become decreased and the perceptibility tor an overview and spatial relations expanded. These variations cover progressive and degressive central-perspectives as well as progressive and degressive "parallel-perspectives", which provide very specific characteristics in use with spatial information transmission. This contribution focuses on enhancing virtual spatial relations in 3D environments by using view-port variations, that modify perspective and orthographic views in a progressive and degressive way. Provided that standard displays deliver significant limitations for effective and expressive geo-communication with virtual 3D environments, offers by 3D cartography are discussed. An exemplary comparison of actual 3D city models allows to identify "dead values" and gives one clue for the requested modification. The description and exemplary visualization of view-port variations lead to their theoretical communication aspects, which will guide pragmatic (user) studies in future.

We are on the cusp of creating realistic, interactive, fully rendered human faces on computers that transcend the "uncanny valley," widely known for capturing the phenomenon of "eeriness" in faces that are almost, but not fully realistic. Because humans are hardwired to respond to faces in uniquely positive ways, artificial realistic faces hold great promise for advancing human interaction with machines. For example, realistic avatars will enable presentation of human actors in virtual collaboration settings with new levels of realism; artificial natural faces will allow the embodiment of cognitive agents, such as Amazon's Alexa or Apple's Siri, putting us on a path to create "artificial human" entities in the near future. In this conceptual paper, we introduce natural face technology (NFT) and its potential for creating realistic visual presence (RVP), a sensation of presence in interaction with a digital actor, as if present with another human. We contribute a forward-looking research agenda to information systems (IS) research, comprising terminology, early conceptual work, concrete ideas for research projects, and a broad range of research questions for engaging with this emerging, transformative technology as it becomes available for application. By doing so, we respond to calls for "blue ocean research" that explores unchartered territory and makes a novel technology accessible to IS early in its application. We outline promising areas of application and foreshadow philosophical, ethical, and conceptual questions for IS research pertaining to the more speculative phenomena of "living with artificial humans."

Touch as a modality in social communication has been getting more attention with recent developments in wearable technology and an increase in awareness of how limited physical contact can lead to touch starvation and feelings of depression. Although several mediated touch methods have been developed for conveying emotional support, the transfer of emotion through mediated touch has not been widely studied. This work addresses this need by exploring emotional communication through a novel wearable haptic system. The system records physical touch patterns through an array of force sensors, processes the recordings using novel gesture-based algorithms to create actuator control signals, and generates mediated social touch through an array of voice coil actuators. We conducted a human subject study (N = 20) to understand the perception and emotional components of this mediated social touch for common social touch gestures, including poking, patting, massaging, squeezing, and stroking. Our results show that the speed of the virtual gesture significantly alters the participants' ratings of valence, arousal, realism, and comfort of these gestures with increased speed producing negative emotions and decreased realism. The findings from the study will allow us to better recognize generic patterns from human mediated touch perception and determine how mediated social touch can be used to convey emotion. Our system design, signal processing methods, and results can provide guidance in future mediated social touch design.

Adding personal perceptions to manufacturing engineering can be very challenging, especially when engineering-based methods are used to make artisans understand the designer's ideas. Unfortunately, the two-dimensional engineering definition can be extremely time-consuming for individuals who lack creativity or imagination, and model-based definition would be incapable of breaking the separation between the virtual space and the real world, which makes the interaction between natural persons exist spatial perception error. The emergence of Augmented Reality (AR), which allows individuals to perceive the intentions and strategies of the designer with visual cues that are attached to actual objects, fills this gap. In this paper, augmented engineering definition (AED) is proposed to enhance the information exchange between natural persons in a succinct, accurate and acceptable form of visual impression. Motivated by visual representation in remote collaboration, the specific empathy scenario bases on the AED design, which leads to the establishment of a mapping relationship between the visual cues and the augmented information. An inquiry had been conducted by involving participants who were paired up for the parts' inspection, interacting via 2D visualization data only, interaction with 3D projection data, interaction with 3D visualization data, AED-based communication. The experimental results showed that participants with AED exhibited higher situational appeal and information understanding than using three other interactions. Besides, we discussed the feasibility of using AED in a collaborative manufacturing environment and the impact on AED users.

For multiple degree-of-freedom (DOF) systems, it is important to determine how accurately operators can control each DOF and what influence perceptual, information processing, and psychomotor components have on performance. Sixteen right-handed mate students participated in 2 experiments: I involving positioning and I involving tracking with 3 translational DOFs. To separate perceptual and psychomotor effects, we used 2 control-display mappings that differed in the coupling of vertical and depth dimensions to the up-down and fore-aft control axes. We observed information processing effects in the positioning task: Initial error correction on the vertical dimension lagged in time behind the horizontal dimension. The depth dimension error correction lagged behind both, which was ascribed to the poorer perceptual information. We observed this perceptual effect also in the tracking experiment: Tracking error along the depth dimension was 3.8 times larger than along the other dimensions. Motor effects were also present, with tracking errors along the up-down axis of the hand controller being 1.1 times larger than along the fore-aft axis. These results indicate that all 3 components contribute to control performance. Actual applications of this research include interface design for remote control and virtual reality.

Robotics teleoperation enables human operators to control the movements of distally located robots. The development of new wearable interfaces as alternatives to hand-held controllers has created new modalities of control, which are more intuitive to use. Nevertheless, such interfaces also require a period of adjustment before operators can carry out their tasks proficiently. In several fields of human-machine interaction, haptic guidance has proven to be an effective training tool for enhancing user performance. This paper presents the results of psychophysical and motor learning studies that were carried out with human participant to assess the effect of cable-driven haptic guidance for a task involving aerial robotic teleoperation. The guidance system was integrated into an exosuit, called the Flyjacket, that was developed to control drones with torso movements. Results for the just noticeable difference and from the Stevens Power Law suggest that the perception of force on the users' torso scales linearly with the amplitude of the force exerted through the cables and the perceived force is close to the magnitude of the stimulus. Motor learning studies reveal that this form of haptic guidance improves user performance in training, but this improvement is not retained when participants are evaluated without guidance.

Purpose -The purpose of this paper is to investigate how non-research users access and use digital surrogates from archival collections via mobile walking tour app. Much of the existing literature that discusses outreach for digitised archival collections in libraries, archives and museums (LAMs) reports examples of single outreach events or discusses outreach broadly, without critically exploring the purpose and context of outreach as an activity. Further, these reports generally aim to introduce collections to potential researchers, amateur or professional, without consideration of how the collections could be used for purposes other than research, by non-researchers. The study aims to expand understanding of non-research use of digital surrogates contextualised by mobile technology. Design/methodology/approach - Utilising an exploratory approach, Walk1916, a mobile walking tour app of Easter Rising sites in Dublin was first developed. It contextualised digital surrogates from archival collections, along with an audio and a textual description of the image, with augmented reality (AR) and geolocation technology. In all, 15 semi-structured interviews were then conducted to understand how contextualising digital surrogates with these mobile technology features influenced participants' perceptions of the digital surrogate. Interview transcripts were transcribed and analysed via memoing and coding, using nVivo for Mac 10.2.2. Findings - Findings from interview data suggest that contextualising the digital surrogate with AR and geolocation features allowed participants to perceive of the digital surrogate as enhancing their understanding of the Easter Rising, enhancing life and allowing for increased control of their experience. Originality/value - This furthers work in the area of how individuals value digital surrogates, in different (non-research) contexts. These findings provide groundwork for the future study of non-research access to and use of digital surrogates held in institutional collections so that LAMs can utilise collections efficiently for a wider user base.

Purpose In performative architectural design, daylighting is a crucial design consideration; however, the evaluation of daylighting in the design process can be challenging. Immersive environments (IEs) can create a dynamic, multi-sensory, first-person view in computer-generated environments, and can improve designers' visual perception and awareness during performative design processes. This research addresses the need for interactive and integrated design tools for IEs toward better-performing architectural solutions in terms of daylighting illumination. In this context, building information modeling and performance simulations are identified as critical technologies to be integrated into performative architectural design. Design/methodology/approach This research adopts a design science research (DSR) methodology involving an iterative process of development, validation and improvement of a novel and immersive tool, HoloArch, that supports design development during daylighting-informed design processes. HoloArch was implemented in a game engine during a spiral software development process. HoloArch allows users to interact with, visualize, modify and explore architectural models. The evaluation is performed in two workshops and a user study. A hybrid approach that combines qualitative and quantitative data collection was adopted for evaluation. Qualitative data analyses involve interviews, while quantitative data analyses involve both daylighting simulations and questionnaires (e.g. technology acceptance model (TAM), presence and system usability scale (SUS)). Findings According to the questionnaire results, HoloArch had 92/100 for SUS, a mean value of 120.4 for presence questionnaire (PQ) and 9.4/10 for TAM. According to the simulation results, all participants improved the given building's daylighting performance using HoloArch. The interviews also indicated that HoloArch is an effective design tool in terms of augmented perception, continuous design processes, performative daylighting design and model interaction. However, challenges still remain regarding the complete integration of tools and simultaneous simulation visualization. The study concludes that IEs hold promising potentials where performative design actions at conceptual, spatial and architectural domains can take place interactively and simultaneously with immediate feedback. Originality/value The research integrates building information modeling (BIM), performative daylighting simulations and IEs in an interactive environment for the identification of potentials and limitations in performative architectural design. Different from existing immersive tools for architecture, HoloArch offers a continuous bidirectional workflow between BIM tools and IEs.

To achieve the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Climate Agreement, it is of great importance to promote environmentally friendly means of transport. In urban areas, shifting motorized trips to active transport modes (i.e., walking and cycling) is essential. Therefore, knowledge of walking and cycling is indispensable for planning and policy, which is the basis for targeted promotion of active forms of mobility. This paper aims to identify factors that specifically influence cycling and to derive recommendations for action for planning and policy in a virtual testbed. Specifically, the influence of traffic planning measures (i.e., structural infrastructure facilities for stationary and moving traffic as well as traffic regulations) and urban design measures (i.e., the design of public space) on the promotion of cycling will be shown. For this purpose, a virtual reality simulation was used, independent of different external conditions during field surveys and the necessity of time-, cost-and regulation intensive structural changes. Using an improved bicycle simulator, 93 people cycled through 20 variations of an approximately 680 m long road section, surveying the effect of selected traffic planning and urban design parameters. Special attention was paid to the subjective safety of the cyclists and the attractiveness of the urban environment. Furthermore, three types of infrastructure were differentiated: No bicycle infrastructure (riding on the roadway), a bicycle lane, and a structurally separated cycle path next to the sidewalk. The virtual road section represented a real location. In addition to the findings gained from the physiological optimization of the simulator, the results show that roadside greenery had the highest effectiveness in terms of subjective safety and attractiveness. Other factors with a high influence were a speed reduction from 50 to 30 km/h when riding on the roadway with cars and the red coloring of the bicycle lane, each increasing the perception of safety. In contrast, a lack of a boundary line between the cycle path and the sidewalk was unsettling for those who rarely or never ride bicycles in their daily lives. In addition, restaurant and recreation areas increased the attractiveness of the road section, although entailing a lower perception of safety. Other factors, such as motor vehicle traffic volume or vehicles parked at the roadside, showed no significant effects on the evaluation of cycling.With the help of these findings, the consequences of traffic planning and urban design measures can be better assessed in subsequent virtual testbeds. Also, initial trends can be identified as to which planning instruments should be used as a priority to promote cycling in urban areas. Future work should validate the transfer of these insights into physical urban spaces to support further the mid-term transformation towards sustainable urban mobility using scientific evidence.

The searcher's realisation of Information Need (IN) in Information Retrieval (IR) is triggered by a perception of the knowledge gap the searcher perceives. Introspective epistemic (knowledge) feelings are evoked, describing the state of the user's anomaly. For instance, Feeling-of-Knowing (FOK) refers to a state of a user's temporary unavailability to recall the information in question. The role and the extent to which such epistemic feelings inform the user's cognitive context need further research. Our methodological design followed the Recall-Judgment-Recognition (RJR) paradigm, commonly used as a framework for memory tests. We collected behavioural data from twenty-four participants in a general knowledge Q/A user study to investigate the interplay of users' internal perceptions of knowing based on three metacognitive states (Recall). The results showed significant differences across different metacognitive states and subsequent memory retrieval performance (Recognition), leading to our conclusion of the accuracy of the metacognitive states of knowing. Specifically, we found that FOK was only a relatively accurate predictor of MR. The amount of failures of recognition connected to FOK, thus, suggests that the participants might have misattributed their positive FOK. Participants could not recognise the answer as they thought, giving rise to phenomena such as Illusion of Knowing. Furthermore, our data support the significant effect of task (question) difficulty on participants' metacognitive states. Based on the interactions between Recall and Recognition, our results contribute to the understanding of the graded nature of cognitive functions, supporting the user's cognitive context in information search and expanding such an area to the realm of contextual task difficulty.

To provide users with a fully immersive environment, VR post-processing, which adds numerous realistic effects on the frame after rendering, plays a key role in modern VR systems. Current post-processing is processed separately from normal rendering by the graphics processing unit (GPU). As a result, the GPU needs to first render a high-resolution frame and then add the post-processing effects within a very short time frame. Our in-depth experimental results on commercial VR products demonstrate that the post-processing in VR applications extends the VR frame time by approximately 2X on average. Furthermore, the ever-increasing resolution requirements of modern VR significantly increase the workloads for post-processing in the execution pipeline. This long delay causes VR real-time execution to frequently miss the critical frame-time deadline, thus hurting users' quality of experience. Based on the analysis of VR post-processing workflow and its common realistic effects, we observe that post-processing shares the same hardware pipeline with normal rendering, and even reuses the intermediate data produced by normal rendering. To fully utilize this hardware-level similarity and capture the data locality, we propose a novel universal realistic rendering architecture for VR, named Post0-VR, which eliminates post-processing by directly merging the common realistic effects into the normal rendering process. Based on our newly proposed VR architecture design, we further propose a dynamic accuracy adjustment method to simplify the normal rendering without hurting users' perception. The evaluation results on real-world applications demonstrate that Post0-VR can support different types of realistic effects while significantly improving the overall VR rendering performance.

Anticipation of future events is recognized to be a significant element of driver competence. Surely, guiding one's behavior through the anticipation of future traffic states provides potential gains in recognition and reaction times. However, the role of anticipation in driving has not been systematically studied. In this paper, we identify the characteristics of anticipation in driving and provide a working definition. In particular, we distinguish it from driving goals such as eco or defensive driving and define it as a high-level competence for efficient positioning of the vehicle to facilitate these goals. We also present a driving simulator study assessing the relation between driver experience and anticipation. Thirty drivers from three different experience categories (low, medium, and high) completed five scenarios, each involving several pre-event cues designed to allow the anticipation of an event. The results showed that more experienced drivers demonstrated more pre-event actions compared with less experienced drivers. While pre-event actions resulted in improved safety on certain occasions, the effects were often not significant. Future research should further investigate the mechanisms underlying anticipation, particularly how drivers make use of temporal and spatial gains obtained through the recognition of pre-event cues.

Purpose - The metaverse is a virtual world where users can communicate with each other in a computer generated environment. The use of metaverse technology has the potential to revolutionize the way businesses operate, interact with customers, and collaborate with employees. However, several obstacles must be addressed and overcome to ensure the successful implementation of metaverse technology. This study aims to examine the implementation of metaverse technology in the management of an organization's supply chain, with a focus on predicting potential barriers to provide suitable strategies. Design/methodology/approach - Covariance-based structural equation modeling (CB-SEM) was used to test the model. In addition, artificial neural network modeling (ANN) was also performed.Findings - The CB-SEM results revealed that a firm's technological limitations are among the most significant barriers to implementing metaverse technology in the supply chain management (SCM). The ANN results further highlighted that the firm's technological limitations are the most crucial input factors, followed by a lack of governance and standardization, integration challenges, poor diffusion through the network, traditional organizational culture, lack of stakeholder commitment, lack of collaboration and low perception of value by customers.Practical implications - Because metaverse technology has the potential to provide organizations with a competitive advantage, increase productivity, improve customer experience and stimulate creativity, it is crucial to discuss and develop solutions to implementation challenges in the business world. Companies can position themselves for success in this fascinating and quickly changing technological landscape by conquering these challenges.Originality/value - This study provides insights to metaverse technology developers and supply chain practitioners for successful implementation in SCM, as well as theoretical contributions for supply chain managers aiming to implement such environments.

Introduction: Using our own hands allows humans to interact with the real world, as we learn from an early age. Virtual reality (VR) gloves allow a similar interaction in VR by transferring hand movements through natural mapping. Research outside the VR domain has already shown that this process creates a high level of presence and perceived naturalness. Research in the VR context, on the other hand, is still in an early stage and lacks explorative qualitative research following a human-centered approach and including the direct perceptions of users on mapped controls in system design. Against that background, this research investigates natural mapping in the VR context qualitatively. The study examines how participants experience VR input devices with different degrees of natural mapping (VR gloves, a Valve index controller, and an HTC Vive controller) on perceived naturalness, spatial presence, embodiment, and cognitive absorption. Methods: A focus group (N = 20 aged 22-36) did the VR experience with the devices and was asked about their experience in semi-structured interviews. Questions focused on perceived naturalness, spatial presence, cognitive absorption, and embodiment with the three devices. Data were analyzed using qualitative content analysis. Results: Feedback on spatial presence was widely positive for the VR glove due to the highly natural perceived movement capabilities. Mapping with the partly mapped index controller was also seen as natural and immersing if the movement matched the operated actions in the system. Participants mainly perceived the highest degree of cognitive absorption and embodiment while doing the task with the VR glove. Discussion: The findings indicate that the natural mapping capabilities of VR input devices strongly influence spatial presence. The VR glove stands out while being able to induce a feeling of embodiment in most cases. Furthermore, participants reported a connection between natural mapping and perceived cognitive absorption in the task.

In game design, avatars are an important means of representing behavioural traits of the player. Designers are often faced with decisions on how the avatar's appearance may affect the game experience. Despite this, relatively little is known about how age influences self-representation in gesture-based avatars. In this paper, we present the findings of 54 mixed-age participants (i.e. teenagers, younger adults and older adults), who were asked to compare the design of three different avatar-types (i.e. cartoon, humanoid and silhouette). Comprising of a post-game questionnaire and individual semi-structured interviews, participants were asked to rank avatar preferences, and were questioned on their perceptions towards age representation. Our results show that there were significant group differences in the identification and awareness of visual features in the avatars for those below the age of 30, compared to those above 55 years old. This included variations in attention to detail and behavioural representation. The paper concludes by reflecting on game design challenges for these target groups, and recommends further avenues of pursuit. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

One method for managing anxiety, a highly prevalent modern mental health condition, is the calming touch sensations of deep pressure therapy (DPT). Solutions for administering DPT include the Automatic Inflatable DPT (AID) Vest, which we designed in past work. Although benefits of DPT are clear in a subset of the related literature, these benefits are not ubiquitous. There is limited understanding of what factors lead to DPT success for a given user. In this work, we present the findings of a user study (N = 25) that evaluates the effects of the AID Vest on anxiety. We compared physiological and self-reported measures of anxiety across Active (inflating) and Control (inactive) states of the AID Vest. In addition, we considered the presence of placebo effects and assessed participant comfort with social touch as a potential moderator. The results support our ability to reliably induce anxiety, and show that the Active AID Vest tended to reduce biosignals related to anxiety. We also found a significant relationship between comfort with social touch and reductions in self-reported state anxiety for the Active condition. Those who seek to successfully deploy DPT can benefit from this work.

Realizing highly immersive tactile interactions requires a skin-integrated, untethered, high-definition tactile transducer devices that can record and generate tactile stimuli. However, the rigid and bulky form factor, and insufficient resolution of existing actuators are hindering the reproduction of sophisticated tactile sensations and immersive user experiences. Here, we demonstrate an ultra-flexible tactile interface with high spatial resolution of 1.8 mm for telehaptic communication on human skin. Dual mechanism sensors and sub-mm scale piezoceramic actuators are designed to record and generate the static and dynamic pressures in a wide frequency range (1 Hz to 1 kHz). Moreover, actuators are integrated on ultra-flexible substrate with chessboard pattern to minimize stress during mechanical deformations. Finally, remote transmissions of various tactile stimuli, such as shapes, textures, and vibration patterns were demonstrated by the telehaptic system with low latency (<1.55 ms) and high fidelity as proven by the short-time Fourier-transform analysis.

Objectives: We assessed the validity and reliability of a virtual environment technology (VET)-based cognitive assessment program that was developed as a measurement tool of cognitive abilities in patients after a stroke. Design: Twenty participants diagnosed with stroke caused by unilateral brain lesions were enrolled to assess the VET program's validity and test-retest reliability. Participants underwent evaluation by paper-based neuropsychological tests including the Korean Mini-Mental Status Examination, the Korean-Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, the Motor Free Visual Perception Test, Rey-Kim Memory Test, and Kim's Frontal-Executive Neuropsychologic Test as well as the VET-based cognitive assessment. Major variables and indices of the VET program were calculated. The VET program validity was evaluated using a simple correlation analysis between variables from the VET program and conventional paper-based neuropsychological measurements, and the reliability was evaluated by investigating the test-retest correlation coefficients. Results: Major variables and indices of the VET program in patients with stroke correlated significantly with the related scores of paper-based neuropsychological tests. In addition, the test-retest reliability analysis revealed that the correlation coefficients ranged from 0.528 to 0.926. Conclusion: The VET-based cognitive assessment program showed adequate reliability and validity as a method of cognitive assessment in patients after stroke.

Background Virtual reality (VR) surgery training has become a trend in clinical education. Many research papers validate the effectiveness of VR-based surgical simulators in training medical students. However, most existing articles employ subjective methods to study the residents' surgical skills improvement. Few of them investigate how to improve the surgery skills on specific dimensions substantially. Methods Our paper resorts to physiological approaches to objectively study the quantitative influence and performance analysis of VR laparoscopic surgical training system for medical students. Fifty-one participants were recruited from a pool of medical students. They conducted four pre and post experiments in the training box. They were trained on VR-based laparoscopic surgery simulators (VRLS) in the middle of pre and post experiments. Their operation and physiological data (heart rate and electroencephalogram) are recorded during the pre and post experiments. The physiological data is used to compute cognitive load and flow experience quantitatively. Senior surgeons graded their performance using newly designed hybrid standards for fundamental tasks and Global operative assessment of laparoscopic skills (GOALS) standards for colon resection tasks. Finally, the participants were required to fill the questionnaires about their cognitive load and flow experience. Results After training on VRLS, the time of the experimental group to complete the same task could drop sharply (p < 0.01). The performance scores are enhanced significantly (p < 0.01). The performance and cognitive load computed from EEG are negatively correlated (p < 0.05). Conclusion The results show that the VRLS could highly improve medical students' performance and enable the participants to obtain flow experience with a lower cognitive load. Participants' performance is negatively correlated with cognitive load through quantitative physiological analysis. This might provide a new way of assessing skill acquirement.

Wayfinding is a representation of the adaptive behavior of humans. Research has shown that urban environments impact pedestrians' perception and cognition, and wayfinding is a common activity in various urban settings. However, it is unclear if there are variations in pedestrians' cognitive processes of wayfinding in different urban environments. This study investigated how urban spatial environments (residential district vs. commercial district; RD vs. CD) and lighting environments (daytime vs. nighttime) impact pedestrians' wayfinding behaviors in terms of time and space. Eye tracking, electroencephalography (EEG), and behavioural data from forty-three pedestrians were collected to compare their perceptual, decision-making, and task-execution processes in different environmental conditions. The study found that pedestrians in residential areas had lower spatial perception and attentional control, but higher decision speed and cognitive load compared to pedestrians in commercial areas during the perceptual decision-making phase. Pedestrians in daytime environments experience reduced spatial perception but increased cognitive load and enhanced attentional control compared to nighttime condition. In the task execution phase, the completion time was longer in the residential area compared to the commercial area. However, there was no significant difference in terms of task performance, such as average speed, and no direct correlation was found between the light environment and task performance. Participants exhibited different pathfinding strategies across different urban environments. This study extends the research of urban environments and has practical implications for urban spatial environment construction, lighting design, and navigation system optimization.

Head-mounted displays are now extensively developed and tested to be used in enhanced reality environments. The technique consists in transmitting synthetic visual information to the user's eyes in such a way that virtual objects are superimposed on the real world. Some displays give the feeling of viewing a rectangular head-fixed virtual screen with clearly visible contours. In addition, head-mounted displays allow for the presentation of head-fixed visual information to the user and this may be an advantage in some applications, military aeronautics for instance. Presenting head-fixed visual information may not be trivial with regard to actual models of spatial orientation. This study addressed the question of potential disorienting effects associated with head-mounted displays by investigating the influence of a head-fixed visual frame on the perception of the vertical when the head or the whole body was tilted in the frontal plane. In a first experiment, subjects were instructed to indicate the vertical by rotating a visual rod that appeared at the centre of the frame whilst tilting the head in various positions. This performance was compared with the effect on the subjective vertical of a tilted earth-based visual frame without head tilts as well as with the effect of tilting the head without a frame. With the tilted frames, subjects set the rod in an intermediate direction between the gravitational vertical and the orientation of the frame. Errors were substantially larger with a head-fixed visual frame during head tilt than with a tilted earth-based frame. This difference cannot be attributed to the addition of a postural effect caused by the head being tilted Moreover, continuous vision of the frame when its orientation changed improved performance only when the head and the frame were dissociated, i.e. with an earth-based frame. A second experiment investigated the effects of a head-fixed frame on the subjective vertical and on the voluntary control of head orientation when the whole body was tilted. The effect of a head-fixed frame was contrasted with the effect of a trunk-fixed frame. Results show that the head-fixed frame modified the head behaviour when subjects were instructed to align the head with the trunk. These errors contributed to an increase in the visual frame influence on the subjective vertical. Results of both experiments suggest that integrating visual information in the head-centric reference frame is crucial for spatial orientation. This Property of the perceptual system may be relevant for the design and use of head-mounted displays.

Driver's access to information about navigation and vehicle data through in-car displays and personal devices distract the driver from safe vehicle management. The discrepancy between road safety and infotainment must be addressed to develop safely operated modern vehicles. Head-up displays (HUDs) aim to introduce a seamless uptake of visual information for the driver while securely operating a vehicle. HUDs projected on the windshield provide the driver with visual navigation and vehicle data within the comfort of the driver's personal eye box through a customizable extended display space. Windshield HUDs do not require the driver to shift the gaze away from the road to attain road information. This article presents a review of technological advances and future perspectives in holographic HUDs by analyzing the optoelectronics devices and the user experience of the driver. The review elucidates holographic displays and full augmented reality in 3D with depth perception when projecting the visual information on the road within the driver's gaze. Design factors, functionality, and the integration of personalized machine learning technologies into holographic HUDs are discussed. Application examples of the display technologies regarding road safety and security are presented. An outlook is provided to reflect on display trends and autonomous driving.

Steady-state visual evoked potential brain-computer interfaces (SSVEP-BCI) have attracted significant attention due to their ease of deployment and high performance in terms of information transfer rate (ITR) and accuracy, making them a promising candidate for integration with consumer electronics devices. However, as SSVEP characteristics are directly associated with visual stimulus attributes, the influence of stereoscopic vision on SSVEP as a critical visual attribute has yet to be fully explored. Meanwhile, the promising combination of virtual reality (VR) devices and BCI applications is hampered by the significant disparity between VR environments and traditional 2D displays. This is not only due to the fact that screen-based SSVEP generally operates under static, stable conditions with simple and unvaried visual stimuli but also because conventional luminance-modulated stimuli can quickly induce visual fatigue. This study attempts to address these research gaps by designing SSVEP paradigms with stereo-related attributes and conducting a comparative analysis with the traditional 2D planar paradigm under the same VR environment. This study proposed two new paradigms: the 3D paradigm and the 3D-Blink paradigm. The 3D paradigm induces SSVEP by modulating the luminance of spherical targets, while the 3D-Blink paradigm employs modulation of the spheres' opacity instead. The results of offline 4-object selection experiments showed that the accuracy of 3D and 2D paradigm was 85.67 and 86.17% with canonical correlation analysis (CCA) and 86.17 and 91.73% with filter bank canonical correlation analysis (FBCCA), which is consistent with the reduction in the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of SSVEP harmonics for the 3D paradigm observed in the frequency-domain analysis. The 3D-Blink paradigm achieved 75.00% of detection accuracy and 27.02 bits/min of ITR with 0.8 seconds of stimulus time and task-related component analysis (TRCA) algorithm, demonstrating its effectiveness. These findings demonstrate that the 3D and 3D-Blink paradigms supported by VR can achieve improved user comfort and satisfactory performance, while further algorithmic optimization and feature analysis are required for the stereo-related paradigms. In conclusion, this study contributes to a deeper understanding of the impact of binocular stereoscopic vision mechanisms on SSVEP paradigms and promotes the application of SSVEP-BCI in diverse VR environments.

Immersive technology is rapidly emerging as a powerful tool for enhancing the digital transformation in transportation to deal with the complexity, high cost, and uncertainty in the dynamic traffic environment. In this study, we investigate the innovations induced by immersive technologies for transportation fields. The literature (153 articles) published over the past five years were collected and analyzed systematically, pertaining to the lifecycle model of the product-service system, i.e., design, development, evaluation, and applications. The review indicated that immersive systems and scenarios have been developed and applied in various transportation areas, such as air traffic management, autonomous vehicles, railways, highways, and vehicle maintenance. Additionally, the review indicated that immersive technology brings significant benefits to the transportation field and induces significant changes in the interactions between humans and the physical world. These changes are expected to induce digital transformation in several aspects, e.g., digital testbeds for theoretical models and algorithms, immersive and safe digital environments for user studies, and digital training. Based on the review, a novel framework and conceptual lifecycle model of developing immersive technology-enabled digital transformation in transportation is proposed, a novel evaluation matrix for measuring the immersive experience level is established. The results provide essential references for practitioners to apply immersive technology and guidance regarding potential future research directions.

Purpose Previous research examined the effectiveness of virtual reality (VR) in various fields including engineering (Alhalabi, 2016), the military (Webster, 2016), robotic surgery (Bric et al., 2016; Francis et al., 2020), firefighters (cakiroglu and Gokoglu, 2019), negotiation training (Ding et al., 2020), health-care training (Chow et al., 2017) and ethics education (Sholihin et al., 2020). However, empirical research examining learning styles on the effectiveness of using VR is still scarce. VR has different characteristics from other learning media and high immersiveness in a VR environment can create a sense of presence that improves learning outcomes, except for students with certain learning styles who experience cognitive overload when exploring virtual environments (Hsu et al., 2017). Therefore, it is necessary to investigate to what extent learning styles can influence the effectiveness of VR-based learning on business ethics. This is because the effectiveness of business ethics education is indispensable along with the increasing cases of fraud and financial companies (PwC's Global Economic Crime and Fraud, 2020). Design/methodology/approach Education must respond to the progress of information technology (IT) development by providing IT-based teaching methods to enhance the learning process. This is because the evolution of technology is changing student learning preferences from verbal to visual or even virtual (Proserpio and Gioia, 2007). VR is an IT-based learning media that creates a virtual environment which simulates the real world and provides concrete experiences, so students are able to actively explore their course material. VR technology is able to provide practical experiences without actually leaving home, so it is relevant for responding to the current situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Findings Compared to traditional learning, VR is a more flexible learning method as it has no limitations of time, distance and space (Yu et al., 2007). The main characteristic of VR is immersion, interaction and imagination (Zhang et al., 2017) that improve cognitive performance in engineering (Alhalabi, 2016), the military (Webster, 2016) and surgical robots (Bric et al., 2016). VR-based learning can improve students' learning abilities compared to traditional teaching (Jena, 2016). VR has already proven effective in teaching business ethics (Sholihin et al., 2020) because VR has the ability to create a virtual world, without any impact from socially reprehensible acts. With VR, students are able to understand scenarios about ethical dilemmas that occur in business practices, observe the potential consequences and make decisions to solve concrete situations where ethical dilemmas require a response. VR allows students to simulate situations virtually and develop their long-term experience. This is crucial because there is the possibility that in the near future the society will live in a mixed world (virtual and physical space). Practical implications A virtual environment that is able to evoke a sense of presence refers to the intensity of emotional involvement. Sense of presence can actually improve the learning results, but if the user lacks the ability to explore game tasks it will cause a cognitive overload that has a negative impact on learning outcomes (Hsu et al., 2017; Huang et al., 2020). Learning style preferences cause differences in cognitive load during the learning process using VR (Hsu et al., 2017). In a VR-based learning environment, students are required to explore the virtual environment; therefore, without navigation, students with active experimental learning styles are superior to students with passive or observing learning styles (Chen et al., 2005). Therefore, it is necessary to understand the impact of adopting VR technology to improve student's performance by considering different learning styles. Social implications In Indonesia, the shift from offline learning to e-learning has created new academic pressures for some students (Pajarianto et al., 2020). The main challenge for educators is how to improve student's learning outcomes and overcome the problem of using e-learning technology. Originality/value In light of the scarcity of research on the effectiveness of VR for teaching business ethics during the COVID-19 pandemic, this study fills the gap by extending the study of Sholihin et al. (2020) in that the authors establish the connection between user perception of the use of VR and learning style in relation to the effectiveness of VR.

The prediction of the visual saliency of omnidirectional images in VR is valuable for understanding visual behaviors. However, the equipment cost, software setups, hardware operation, and other constraints in acquiring eye-tracking data of omnidirectional images for visual saliency prediction would lead to a low training efficiency and prediction performance. Therefore, this paper proposed a crowdsourcing method based on recall fixations, which was used to collect and construct an omnidirectional image with eye-tracking dataset called CrowdSourcing360, which contained 16,200 pieces of data on 180 images. Using this dataset, a visual saliency prediction model CSnet360 was trained. Experiments demonstrated that the visual saliency prediction performance of the CSnet360 outperformed most existing models even without using actual gaze fixations. Finally, a VR interior design assistance prototype system was built and the preliminary study results indicated that the system could help designers to improve the quality of their design solutions.

Background Youth mental health problems are a major public health concern. Anxiety and depression are among the most common psychological difficulties. The aim of this study is to evaluate an optimized version of a promising indicated group intervention for emotional problems. The program (EMOTION Coping Kids Managing Anxiety and Depression) targets school children 8-12 years with anxious and depressive symptoms and examines three factors. Factor 1 compares the standard EMOTION intervention delivered in 16 group-based sessions (Group), versus a partially-digital EMOTION intervention (DIGGI) delivered as eight group sessions and eight digital sessions. Both versions use virtual reality technology (VR) to improve behavioral experiments. Factor 2 compares parent participation in a 5-session parent group (high involvement) versus sharing information with parents via a brochure (low involvement). Factor 3 compares the use of a measurement and feedback system (MFS) designed to help group leaders tailor the intervention using feedback from children with no MFS. Methods Using a cluster-randomized factorial design, 40 schools across Norway will be randomized to eight different experimental conditions based on three, two-level factors. To assess internalizing symptoms in children, children and their parents will be given self-report questionnaires pre-, post-, and one year after intervention. Parents also report on demographics, user satisfaction, personal symptoms and perception of family related factors. Teachers report on child symptoms and school functioning. Group leaders and the head of the municipal services report on implementation issues. The primary outcomes are changes in depressive and anxious symptoms. Some secondary outcomes are changes in self-esteem, quality of life, and user satisfaction. Questions regarding the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic are included. Treatment fidelity is based on checklists from group leaders, and on user data from the participating children. Discussion This study is a collaboration between three regional centers for child and adolescent mental health in Norway. It will provide knowledge about: (1) the effect of school-based preventive interventions on anxiety and depression in children; (2) the effect of feedback informed health systems, (3) the effect and cost of digital health interventions for children, and (4) the effect of parental involvement.

From simple vibrations to roles in complex multisensory systems, haptic technology is often a critical, expected component of user experience one face of the rapid progression towards blended physical-digital interfaces. Haptic experience design, which is woven together with other multisensory design efforts, interfaces is now becoming part of many designers' jobs. We can expect it to present unique challenges, and yet we know almost nothing of what it looks like "in the wild" due to the field's relative youth, its technical complexity, the multisensory interactions between haptics, sight, and sound, and the difficulty of accessing practitioners in professional and proprietary environments. In this paper, we analyze interviews with six professional haptic designers to document and articulate haptic experience design by observing designers' goals and processes and finding themes at three levels of scope: the multisensory nature of haptic experiences, a map of the collaborative ecosystem, and the cultural context of haptics. Our findings are augmented by feedback obtained in a recent design workshop at an international haptics conference. We find that haptic designers follow a familiar design process, but face specific challenges when working with haptics. We-capture and summarize these challenges, make concrete recommendations to conquer them, and present a vision for the future of haptic experience design. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

This paper introduces a wearable pneumatic actuator, designed for providing multiple types of tactile feedback using a single end-effector. To this end, the actuator combines a 3D-printed framework consisting of five 0.5 DOF soft silicon air cells with a pneumatic system to deliver a range of tactile sensations through a single end-effector. The actuator is capable of producing diverse haptic feedback, including vibration, pressure, impact, and lateral force, controlled by an array of solenoid valves. The design's focus on multimodality in a compact and lightweight form factor makes it highly suitable for wearable applications. It can produce a maximum static force of 8.3 N, vibrations with an acceleration of up to 3.15 g, and lateral forces of up to 3.3 N. The efficacy of the actuator is demonstrated through two distinct user studies: one focusing on perception, where users differentiated between lateral cues and vibration frequencies, and another within a first-person shooter gaming scenario, revealing enhanced user engagement and experience. The actuator's adaptability to body sites and rich multimodal haptic feedback enables it to find applications in virtual reality, gaming, training simulations, and more.

The nuclear energy is widely used as a new energy source due to the increasing depletion of fossil fuels. In the development of nuclear energy and technology, people are paying more and more attention to the issue of nuclear radiation protection. As a result, advanced computer technology has become a new way to solve nuclear radiation safety issues. This paper proposes to utilize CUDA-based ray-casting volume rendering to build an interactive nuclear radiation visualization system to solve the nuclear radiation safety problems, such as the judgment of radiation dose leakage and the planning of construction path. The system includes three modules, which are the overall dose rate distribution display of multiple power plants, the dose view of a specific equipment in power plants, and the dynamic evolution of nuclear radiation leakage. The analysis and user feedbacks of the experimental results show that this interactive visualization system can present the nuclear dose distribution of power plant in real time and from different granularities. This system utilizes the color mapping schema that as the dose density increases, the color changes from green to red, which is in line with human visual perception. Meanwhile, the dynamic radiation leakage scenario view is assistant to the design of nuclear radiation protection.

This paper reports on Team Northeastern's Avatar system for telepresence, and our holistic approach to meet the ANA Avatar XPRIZE Final testing task requirements. The system features a dual-arm configuration with hydraulically actuated glove-gripper pair for haptic force feedback. Our proposed Avatar system was evaluated in the ANA Avatar XPRIZE Finals and completed all 10 tasks, scored 14.5 points out of 15.0, and received the 3rd Place Award. We provide the details of improvements over our first generation Avatar, covering manipulation, perception, locomotion, power, network, and controller design. We also extensively discuss the major lessons learned during our participation in the competition.

In the Plan for New-generation Artificial Intelligence Development promulgated by the state in recent years, the introduction of artificial intelligence and immersive teaching into smart education has been put forward, aiming to construct the online education model with an XR integration and to build interactive learning environment through the energizing of 5G. This project discusses about how to design education products integrating virtual and real factors so as to effectively improve the situationality and experience of children in the learning of music theory, mobilize children to learn through visual sense, kinesthesis, hearing and other senses with the help of AR recognition technology, thus presenting abstract concepts and theories to the children in a more intuitive way, thus improving their learning efficiency. Finally, the researchers designed and developed a set of game products for music learning combining software and hardware, and a usability test of the prototype was conducted so as to carry out the iterated design. The design in this project addresses the problems of boredom and passive learning seen in children learning music theory in the traditional way, combines obscure knowledge of music theory with interactive games, thus promoting children learners' understanding of music theory. The way of immersive learning with an integration of virtual and real factors, interactive means and perception methods have improved the learning efficiency and creativity of the learners, optimized the design and realization process of the interaction and feedback mechanism, and brought about game-changing changes to educational ideas and teaching approaches.

The rapid advancements in artificial intelligence, particularly in the domains of robotics, prosthetics, and virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), have driven an escalating demand for intuitive and effective human-machine interactions. Consequently, haptic devices, being electronic displays for the sense of touch, have drawn increasing attention. More efforts are in demand to develop stretchable and lightweight haptic devices that can trigger multiple mechanical cutaneous receptors using a single device. This work presents a new 3-modal 5-DOF stretchable haptic interface that is enabled by electromagnetic actuators and high-fidelity multi-layer metal printing. The haptic device renders rich haptic sensations (i.e., normal force, vibration, angular force, skin dragging) in one device, allowing for the comprehensive delivery of tactile information through the excitation of multiple cutaneous receptors. Additionally, haptic devices are designed to be compact, lightweight, and skin-compatible. The skin-like softness and stretchability enable intimate skin contact, which is crucial for efficient haptic information delivery. This feature prevents the impediment to natural movements of the skin and ensures the functional integrity of the device during daily deformations of the skin. Finally, three proof-of-concept demonstrations illustrate the potential of the reported multimodal haptic devices for advanced haptic interactions across various domains. This work presents a 3-modal 5-DOF stretchable haptic interface that is enabled by electromagnetic actuators and high-fidelity multi-layer metal printing. The haptic device renders rich haptic sensations (i.e., normal force, vibration, angular movement, skin dragging) in one device, allowing for a comprehensive delivery of tactile information through the excitation of multiple mechanical cutaneous receptors. image

Purpose Drawn from the concepts of processing fluency and mental imagery, the present study aims to fill the void by developing the mechanism underlying consumers' cognitive processing of visually appealing digital content in social media (i.e. Instagram) of retail brands. Design/methodology/approach Data were gathered using a web-based survey method with consumers residing in the USA (N = 328). Structural equation modelling (SEM) was employed to investigate the proposed hypotheses. In addition, measurement invariance and multigroup analyses were conducted to test the moderation effect of need for cognition (NFC). Findings The results supported the pivotal role of mental imagery when consumers process visual messages in the context of a retail brand's Instagram. Both comprehension fluency and imagery fluency positively influence mental imagery, which in turn cultivates positive attitude towards the brand. The mediating role of mental imagery is confirmed. Furthermore, individuals' NFC interacts with imagery fluency but not with comprehension fluency such that high NFC strengthens the effect of imagery fluency on mental imagery. That is, when high-NFC consumers process information on Instagram, their perceptions of ease of generating imagery likely evoke visual representation of the brand's messages on Instagram in their minds. Practical implications This research provides feasible ways for brands to increase the effectiveness of digital marketing communications in social media (e.g. optimising of the contextual features of visual information and employing interactive features such as filters of social media to enhance processing fluency). Originality/value Within the context of digital retailing, this study provides a new perspective of consumers' imagery processing to investigate the effectiveness of visual-focussed messages.

African literature has played a major role in changing and shaping perceptions about African people and their way of life for the longest time. Unlike western cultures that are associated with advanced forms of writing, African literature is oral in nature, meaning it has to be recited and even performed. Although Africa has an old tribal culture, African philosophy is a new and strange idea among us. Although the problem of "universality" of African philosophy actually refers to the question of whether Africa has heckling of philosophy in the Western sense, obviously, the philosophy bred by Africa's native culture must be acknowledged. Therefore, the human-computer interaction-oriented (HCI-oriented) method is proposed to appreciate African literature and African philosophy. To begin with, a physical object of tablet-aid is designed, and a depth camera is used to track the user's hand and tablet-aid and then map them to the virtual scene, respectively. Then, a tactile redirection method is proposed to meet the user's requirement of tactile consistency in head-mounted display virtual reality environment. Finally, electroencephalogram (EEG) emotion recognition, based on multiscale convolution kernel convolutional neural networks, is proposed to appreciate the reflection of African philosophy in African literature. The experimental results show that the proposed method has a strong immersion and a good interactive experience in navigation, selection, and manipulation. The proposed HCI method is not only easy to use, but also improves the interaction efficiency and accuracy during appreciation. In addition, the simulation of EEG emotion recognition reveals that the accuracy of emotion classification in 33-channel is 90.63%, almost close to the accuracy of the whole channel, and the proposed algorithm outperforms three baselines with respect to classification accuracy. Z8 0

As haptics becomes an integral component of scientific data visualization systems, there is a growing need to study "haptic glyphs" (building blocks for displaying information through the sense of touch) and quantify their information transmission capability. The present study investigated the channel capacity for transmitting information through stiffness or force magnitude. Specifically, we measured the number of stiffness or force-magnitude levels that can be reliably identified in an absolute identification paradigm. The range of stiffness and force magnitude used in the present study, 0.2-3.0 N/min and 0.1-5.0 N, respectively, was typical of the parameter values encountered in most virtual reality or data visualization applications. Ten individuals participated in a stiffness identification experiment, each completing 250 trials. Subsequently, four of these individuals and six additional participants completed 250 trials in a force-magnitude identification experiment. A custom-designed 3 degrees-of-freedom force-feedback device, the ministick, was used for stimulus delivery. The results showed an average information transfer of 1.46 bits for stiffness identification, or equivalently, 2.8 correctly-identifiable stiffness levels. The average information transfer for force magnitude was 1.54 bits, or equivalently, 2.9 correctly-identifiable force magnitudes. Therefore, on average, the participants could only reliably identify 2-3 stiffness levels in the range of 0.2-3.0 N/mm, and 2-3 force-magnitude levels in the range of 0.1-5.0 N. Individual performance varied from I to 4 correctly-identifiable stiffness levels and 2 to 4 correctly-identifiable force-magnitude levels. Our results are consistent with reported information transfers for haptic stimuli. Based on the present study, it is recommended that 2 stiffness or force-magnitude levels (i.e., high and low) be used with haptic glyphs in a data visualization system, with an additional third level (medium) for more experienced users.

In recent years, the implementation of digital twin (DT) technology has gained significant attention in various industries. However, the fire safety management (FSM) sector has been relatively slow in adopting this technology compared to other major industries. Therefore, this study aims to explore the limitations, opportunities, and challenges associated with adopting DT technology in the FSM sector and further develop a DT-based FSM framework towards smart facility management (FM). To achieve this objective, this research started by reviewing several promising DTs for FSM, including building information modeling (BIM), the Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), and augmented reality (AR). On this basis, a conceptual framework was synthesized in consideration of the benefits of each technology. A questionnaire was conducted for FM professionals to evaluate the proposed framework and identify the challenges of adopting DT in the FSM sector. The survey results reveal that the proposed framework can assist decision makers in obtaining comprehensive information about facilities' communication among stakeholders. The survey results validate the potential of the adoption of DTs toward smart FM practices in FSM. The survey results provide insights into the perception of DT technology among FM practitioners and identify the current state of DT technology in the FSM sector, its expected benefits, and its potential challenges. The main barriers to adopting DTs in FSM are a lack of knowledge about DTs, their initial costs, user acceptance, difficulties in systems integration, education training costs, a lack of competence, development complexity, difficulties in data management, and a lack of trust in data security. Z8 0

Nowadays, society passes through a moment of transition, in which technological progress has offered the possibility, as well as the challenge, of gathering and transmitting an infinity of information in such short time. In this context, the museum transforms, it becomes a sensitive organism that modifies the visitor-artwork relationship, introducing new models of interaction and fruition. Design in line with digital technologies play a determinative role in this transformation, generating new languages and experimentations that multiply the levels of artwork narration, introducing new temporal dimensions and exhibition paradigms. Despite the considerable progress accomplished in recent years both by research and industry in the fields of acquisition techniques, digitalization, computer graphics, visualization, most of the applications for the communication of cultural heritage on site and on line still have many limitations concerning their ability of engaging the users. They often lack narrative metaphors, sensorial and emotional involvement, while interaction interfaces may appear hostile for a considerable part of the visitors. Starting from the most appropriate learning style to the characteristics regarding the user's identity, he has the necessity to enter a space, be it real or virtual, able to stimulate him towards future insights and knowledge acquisition. Storytelling and perception come into play in order to build experience, which needs to engage the visitor emotionally, but it must also be capable of not subtracting him to the real visit. It has to offer valid hints, but it must not become a substitute of reality, while technologies must not transform into barriers, but into an opening towards a future accessible to all. With the forthcoming objective of understanding how to overcome limitations and build enhanced fruition and adaptive, personalised interaction models where the visitor stays at the centre of the design scene, this paper analyses the current transformations, providing a general view of national and international experiences that use the technological potential in an innovative way, defining best practices in the field. The connections between user and technology related to space and time will be highlighted, as well as the storytelling methods and the interactive, engaging and sensorial visitor - museum experiences.

The objective of this work is to develop an integrated visual analysis and modelling for environmental and urban systems in respect to interior space layout and functionality. This work involves interdisciplinary research efforts that focus primarily on architecture design discipline, yet incorporates experts from other and different disciplines, such as Geoinformatics, computer sciences and environment-behavior studies. This work integrates an advanced Spatial Openness Index (SOT) model within realistic geovisualized Geographical Information System (GIS) environment and assessment using subjective residents' evaluation. The advanced SOT model measures the volume of visible space at any required view point practically, for every room or function. This model enables accurate 3D simulation of the built environment regarding built structure and surrounding vegetation. This paper demonstrates the work on a case study. A 3D model of Neve-Shaanan neighbourhood in Haifa was developed. Students that live in this neighbourhood had participated in this research. Their apartments were modelled in details and inserted into a general model, representing topography and the volumes of buildings. The visual space for each room in every apartment was documented and measured and at the same time the students were asked to answer questions regarding their perception of space and view from their residence. The results of this research work had shown potential contribution to professional users, such as researchers, designers and city planners. This model can be easily used by professionals and by non-professionals such as city dwellers, contractors and developers. This work continues with additional case studies having different building typologies and functions variety, using virtual reality tools.

There is an increasing interest in multimodal technology-based warnings, namely those conveying speech-warning statements. This type of warning may be tailored to the situation as well as to the target user's characteristics. However, more information is needed on how to design these warnings in a way that ensures intelligibility, promotes compliance and reduces the potential for annoyance. In this context, this paper reports an exploratory study whose main purpose was to assist the selection of a synthesized voice for a subsequent compliance study with personalized (i.e., using the person's name) technology-based warnings using Virtual Reality. Participants were requested to listen to speech signals, gathered from a speech synthesizer and post-processed in order to change the pitch perception, and then these were evaluated by fulfilling the MOS-X questionnaire. After that, the participants ranked the voices according to their preference. The effects of the speaker's gender and voice pitch, on both ratings and ranking were assessed. The preference of the male and female listeners for a talker's voice gender was also investigated. The results show that participants mostly prefer as first choice the high-pitched female voice, which also gathered the highest overall score in the MOS-X questionnaire. No significant influence of the participants' gender was found on the assessed measures.

Digital games often benefit players, whether in learning, health, or simply entertainment, but some game design elements (e.g., avatars) potentially disadvantage certain social groups (e.g., women). To counteract such potential effects, we explore the moderating role of avatar self-relevance in avatar-induced stereotype threat effects. Specifically, we examine how avatar customization (i.e., designing an avatar) and avatar-body connection (i.e., the perception that the avatar is incorporated into body schema) interact with avatar gender to influence user's post-game behavior in ways that conform to gendered stereotypes. In an experimental study (N = 64, all female), participants completed a competitive math task after playing a digital sword-fighting game. For participants who customized an avatar and experienced low avatar embodiment, those who used male avatar performed better at the math task than those who used a female avatar. These findings extend our understanding of avatar use effects, especially as they relate to avatar self-relevance, avatar customization, avatar embodiment, and stereotype threat, thereby providing insights into the ways that digital games can be designed to maximize positive outcomes for players in a variety of meaningful contexts. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Z8 0

Virtual reality (VR) technology is being used with increasing frequency as a training medium for motor rehabilitation. However, before addressing training effectiveness in virtual environments (VEs), it is necessary to identify if movements made in such environments are kinematically similar to those made in physical environments (PEs) and the effect of provision of haptic feedback on these movement patterns. These questions are important since reach-to-grasp movements may be inaccurate when visual or haptic feedback is altered or absent. Our goal was to compare kinematics of reaching and grasping movements to three objects performed in an immersive three-dimensional (3D) VE with haptic feedback (cyberglove/grasp system) viewed through a head-mounted display to those made in an equivalent physical environment (PE). We also compared movements in PE made with and without wearing the cyberglove/grasp haptic feedback system. Ten healthy subjects (8 women, 62.1 +/- 8.8 years) reached and grasped objects requiring 3 different grasp types (can, diameter 65.6 mm, cylindrical grasp: screwdriver, diameter 31.6 mm, power grasp: pen, diameter 7.5 mm, precision grasp) in PE and visually similar virtual objects in VE. Temporal and spatial arm and trunk kinematics were analyzed. Movements were slower and grip apertures were wider when wearing the glove in both the PE and the VE compared to movements made in the PE without the glove. When wearing the glove, subjects used similar reaching trajectories in both environments, preserved the coordination between reaching and grasping and scaled grip aperture to object size for the larger object (cylindrical grasp). However, in VE compared to PE, movements were slower and had longer deceleration times, elbow extension was greater when reaching to the smallest object and apertures were wider for the power and precision grip tasks. Overall, the differences in spatial and temporal kinematics of movements between environments were greater than those due only to wearing the cyberglove/grasp system. Differences in movement kinematics due to the viewing environment were likely due to a lack of prior experience with the virtual environment, an uncertainty of object location and the restricted field-of-view when wearing the head-mounted display. The results can be used to inform the design and disposition of objects within 3D VEs for the study of the control of prehension and for upper limb rehabilitation. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Z8 2

We present a study of an artificial neural architecture that predict human ocular scanpaths while they are free-viewing different images types. This analysis is made by comparing different metrics that encompass scanpath patterns, these metrics aim to measure spatial and temporal errors; such as the MSE, ScanMatch, cross-correlogram peaks, and MultiMatch. Our methodology begin by choosing one architecture and training different parametric models per subject and image type, this allows to adjust the models to each person and a given set of images. We find out that there is a clear difference in prediction when people free-view images with high visual content (high-frequency contents) and low visual content (no-frequency contents). The input features selected for predicting the scanpath are saliency maps calculated from foveated images together with the past of the ocular scanpath of subjects, modeled by our architecture called FovSOS-FSD (Foveated Saliency and Ocular Scanpath with Feature Selection and Direct Prediction).The results of this study could be used to improve the design of gaze-controlled interfaces, virtual reality, as well as to better understand how humans visually explore their surroundings and pave a way to make future research.

Study Objective: To answer the question of whether there is a difference between robotic virtual reality simulator performance assessment and validated human reviewers. Current surgical education relies heavily on simulation. Several assessment tools are available to the trainee, including the actual robotic simulator assessment metrics and the Global Evaluative Assessment of Robotic Skills (GEARS) metrics, both of which have been independently validated. GEARS is a rating scale through which human evaluators can score trainees' performances on 6 domains: depth perception, bimanual dexterity, efficiency, force sensitivity, autonomy, and robotic control. Each domain is scored on a 5-point Likert scale with anchors. We used 2 common robotic simulators, the dV-Trainer (dVT; Mimic Technologies Inc., Seattle, WA) and the da Vinci Skills Simulator (dVSS; Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, CA), to compare the performance metrics of robotic surgical simulators with the GEARS for a basic robotic task on each simulator. Design: A prospective single-blinded randomized study. Setting: A surgical education and training center. Participants: Surgeons and surgeons in training. Interventions: Demographic information was collected including sex, age, level of training, specialty, and previous surgical and simulator experience. Subjects performed 2 trials of ring and rail 1 (RR1) on each of the 2 simulators (dVSS and dVT) after undergoing randomization and warm-up exercises. The second RR1 trial simulator performance was recorded, and the deidentified videos were sent to human reviewers using GEARS. Eight different simulator assessment metrics were identified and paired with a similar performance metric in the GEARS tool. The GEARS evaluation scores and simulator assessment scores were paired and a Spearman rho calculated for their level of correlation. Measurements and Main Results: Seventy-four subjects were enrolled in this randomized study with 9 subjects excluded for missing or incomplete data. There was a strong correlation between the GEARS score and the simulator metric score for time to complete versus efficiency, time to complete versus total score, economy of motion versus depth perception, and overall score versus total score with rho coefficients greater than or equal to 0.70; these were significant (p < .0001). Those with weak correlation (rho >= 0.30) were bimanual dexterity versus economy of motion, efficiency versus master workspace range, bimanual dexterity versus master workspace range, and robotic control versus instrument collisions. Conclusion: On basic VR tasks, several simulator metrics are well matched with GEARS scores assigned by human reviewers, but others are not. Identifying these matches/mismatches can improve the training and assessment process when using robotic surgical simulators. (C) 2017 AAGL. All rights reserved. Z8 1

This paper presents a novel approach to content delivery for video streaming services. It exploits information from connected eye-trackers embedded in the next generation of VR Head Mounted Displays (HMDs). The proposed solution aims to deliver high visual quality, in real time, around the users' fixations points while lowering the quality everywhere else. The goal of the proposed approach is to substantially reduce the overall bandwidth requirements for supporting VR video experiences while delivering high levels of user perceived quality. The prerequisites to achieve these results are: (1) mechanisms that can cope with different degrees of latency in the system and (2) solutions that support fast adaptation of video quality in different parts of a frame, without requiring a large increase in bitrate. A novel codec configuration, capable of supporting near-instantaneous video quality adaptation in specific portions of a video frame, is presented. The proposed method exploits in-built properties of HEVC encoders and while it introduces a moderate amount of error, these errors are indetectable by users. Fast adaptation is the key to enable gaze-aware streaming and its reduction in bandwidth. A testbed implementing gaze-aware streaming, together with a prototype HMD with in-built eye tracker, is presented and was used for testing with real users. The studies quantified the bandwidth savings achievable by the proposed approach and characterize the relationships between Quality of Experience (QoE) and network latency. The results showed that up to 83% less bandwidth is required to deliver high QoE levels to the users, as compared to conventional solutions.

PurposeThis is a general review study aiming to specify the key customer-based factors and technologies that influence the value co-creation (VCC) process through artificial intelligence (AI) and automation in the hospitality and tourism industry.Design/methodology/approachThe study uses a theory-based general literature review approach to explore key customer-based factors and technologies influencing VCC in the tourism industry. By reviewing the relevant literature, the authors conclude a theoretical framework postulating the determinants of VCC in the AI-driven tourism industry.FindingsThis paper identifies customers' perceptions, attitudes, trust, social influence, hedonic motivations, anthropomorphism and prior experience as customer-based factors to VCC through the use of AI. Service robots, AI-enabled self-service kiosks, chatbots, metaversal tourism and new reality, machine learning (ML) and natural language processing (NLP) are technologies that influence VCC.Research limitations/implicationsThe results of this research inform a theoretical framework articulating the human and AI elements for future research set to expand the models predicting VCC in the tourism industry.Originality/valueFew studies have examined consumer-related factors that influence their participation in the VCC process through automation and AI. Z8 0

Mid-air haptic technology allows designers to build touchless interfaces incorporating tactile feedback. In the present study, 17 students of the University of Siena were engaged in an experiment where they had to recognize shapes (a circle, a square, or a point) presented one at a time as mid-air haptic stimuli. The task was to discriminate if a stimulus (e.g. round stimulus on the palm of the hand) was compatible with an image (e.g. a circle) or a word (e.g. "circle") displayed on a screen. The results indicate that only the "point" stimulus can lead to appreciable recognition performance, both in terms of accuracy and in relation to the time needed for the identification. No learning-based performance improvements were found. These results suggest that the haptic feedback provided by the mid-air technology used in the experiment is informative but difficult to discriminate and therefore it should be carefully designed in particular when associated to tasks requiring accuracy and speed of recognition.

This study assesses the effectiveness of a new virtual task to evaluate human place learning. This test was based on the hole-board maze, developed for rodent research. Its design provides an easy set of levels of difficulty. Sixty-three undergraduate students (30 men and 33 women) were randomly distributed into three testing conditions; they had to find 3, 5 and 7 rewards, respectively, in a virtual room with 16 possible rewarded positions. Subjects were asked to use the minimum amount of attempts to discover all the rewards in 10 trials. In the initial trial subjects needed to visit almost all the positions to discover the rewards. However, in the last trial an important percentage of subjects did not err. Results showed that all subjects acquired the task but with different amounts of mistakes directly related to the level of difficulty of the condition. In addition, women were slower and less accurate than men. These results agree with previous results in other virtual tasks, and support the spatial component of this test. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

The need to generate convincing simulation of voices often arises in the context of avatar therapy, a treatment approach for disorders such as schizophrenia. This treatment involves patients interacting with simulations of the entity they imagine to be responsible for the voices they hear, for which there is often no external reference available. However, in such scenarios, there is little knowledge of how to design and reproduce these voices in a convincing manner. Existing voice manipulation interfaces are often complex to use, and highly limited in their ability to modify vocal characteristics beyond small adjustments. To address these challenges, we designed a framework that allows users to explore and select from a large set of voices, and thereafter manipulate the voice(s) to converge towards an effective match for one they have in mind. We demonstrated both the usability and superior performance of this system compared to existing voice manipulation interfaces.

Recent technological advancements have enabled the widespread application of simulations in organizations, particularly for training contexts. Two important simulation elements, environment and control, have often been shown to improve trainee outcomes. I argue that environment and control are reliant on each other, and their combined effects are explained by extending the Uncanny Valley Theory. The Uncanny Valley Theory proposes that individuals are comfortable with experiences that are very dissimilar or similar to reality, but are uncomfortable with experiences that fall between these conditions. In simulations, perceptions of realism are created through observations (environment) and interactions (control). Users are comfortable with experiences when these elements are in agreement; however, an Uncanny Valley effect may occur when these elements are in disagreement. In the current article, two studies analyze the realism of environment and control in predicting trainee reactions and learning outcomes. Both studies support the extension of the Uncanny Valley Theory to simulations. Simulations with only "low" or only "high" environment and control produce the greatest outcomes, and those with mixed "low" and "high" elements produce the worst outcomes; however, trainees did not differ in reactions to the simulations, indicating that the Uncanny Valley phenomenon in simulations may operate subconsciously. (c) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Based on the Varioscope, a commercially available head-mounted operating binocular, we have developed a head-mounted display for augmented reality visualization that seamlessly fits into the infrastructure of a surgical navigation system. This head-mounted display, called the Varioscope AR, is equipped with two miniature computer monitors that merge computer graphics with the view of the operating field as seen by the surgeon. Since the position of the Varioscope AR is being tracked by the navigation system's optical tracker, planning data such as the location of a lesion identified on preoperative volume images can be displayed in the correct position transparently overlaying the optical field of view. In order to assess the system's accuracy and the depth perception of a user aiming at a given target, we have designed a phantom for skull base surgery. 16 steel spheres were fixed at the base of a bony skull, and several typical craniotomies were applied. After having taken CT scans, the skull was filled with opaque gelatine in order to simulate brain tissue. The positions of the spheres were registered using VISIT, a system for computer - aided surgical navigation. Then attempts were made to locate the steel spheres with a bayonet probe through the craniotomies using VISIT and the Varioscope AR as a stereoscopic display device. Localization using stereoscopic vision with this novel device had a success rate (defined as a first-trial bit rate) of 81,5%. Using monoscopic vision, the success rate was found to be 50%. We conclude that the Varioscope AR is now mature for further cadaver tests and clinical studies.

PurposeFact-checking is a process of seeking and displaying facts to confirm or counter uncertain information, which reduces the spread of fake news. However, little is known about how to promote fact-checking posts to online users on social media. Through uncertainty reduction theory and message framing, this first study examines the effect of fact-checking posts on social media with an avatar on online users' trust, attitudes, and behavioral intentions. The authors further investigate the congruency effects between promotional message framing (gain/loss/neutral) and facial expressions of the avatar (happy/angry/neutral) on online users' trust, attitudes, and behavioral intentions in the second study.Design/methodology/approachThe authors conducted two studies and statistically analyzed 120 samples (study 1) and 519 samples (study 2) from Facebook users.FindingsResults showed that including the neutral facial expression avatar in fact-checking posts leads to online users' greater trust and more positive attitudes. Furthermore, the congruency effects between loss message framing and the angry facial expression of the avatar can effectively promote online users' trust and attitudes as well as stronger intentions to follow and share.Originality/valueThis study offers theoretical implications for fact-checking studies, and practical implications for online fact-checkers to apply these findings to design effective fact-checking posts and spread the veracity of information on social media.

Individuals tend to cooperate or collaborate to reach a common goal when the going gets tough creating a common frame of reference that is a common mental representation of the situation. Information exchange among people is fundamental for building a shared strategy through the grounding process that exploits different communication channels like vision, haptic, or voice. Indeed, human perception is typ-ically multi-modal. This work proposes a two-fold study investigating the cognitive collaboration process both among humans and virtual agents of a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) system. The experiment with humans consists of an interactive virtual shared environment that uses multi-modal channels (visual and haptics) as interaction cues. Haptic feedback is fundamental for a good sense of presence and for improv-ing the performance in completing a task. In this manuscript, an experiment, consisting of escaping a vir-tual maze trying to get the best score possible, is introduced. The experiment is meant to be performed in pairs, and the perceptual information is split among the participants. A custom haptic interface has been used for the interaction with the virtual environment. The machine learning case, instead, proposes two virtual agents implemented using a tabular Q-learning paradigm to control a single avatar in a 2D labyr-inth, introducing a new form of MARL setting. As it is known, it is not easy to get familiar with haptics for people that have never used it, and that if not properly transmitted, the cognitive workflow does not produce any improvements. However, the main findings of the proposed work are that haptic-driven multi-modal feedback information is a valu-able means of collaboration since it allows to establish a common frame of reference between the two participants. The machine learning experiments show that even independent agents, implemented with properly designed rewards, can learn the intentions of the other participant in the same environment and collaborate to accomplish a common task. (c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Z8 0

Background: Innovative imaging techniques, using up-to-date ultrasonic equipment, necessitate specific biometry. The aim of our study was to test the possibility of detailed human embryonic biometry using a virtual reality (VR) technique. Methods: In a longitudinal study, three-dimensional (3D) measurements were performed from 6 to 14 weeks gestational age in 32 pregnancies (n = 16 spontaneous conception, n = 16 IVF/ICSI). A total of 125 3D volumes were analysed in the I-Space VR system, which allows binocular depth perception, providing a realistic 3D illusion. Crown-rump length (CRL), biparietal diameter (BPD), occipito-frontal diameter (OFD), head circumference (HC) and abdominal circumference (AC) were measured as well as arm length, shoulder width, elbow width, hip width and knee width. Results: CRL, BPD, OFD and HC could be measured in more than 96% of patients, and AC in 78%. Shoulder width, elbow width, hip width and knee width could be measured in more than 95% of cases, and arm length in 82% of cases. Growth curves were constructed for all variables. Ear and foot measurements were only possible beyond 9 weeks gestation. Conclusions: This study provides a detailed, longitudinal description of normal human embryonic growth, facilitated by a VR system. Growth curves were created for embryonic biometry of the CRL, BPD, HC and AC early in pregnancy and also of several 'new' biometric measurements. Applying virtual embryoscopy will enable us to diagnose growth and/or developmental delay earlier and more accurately. This is especially important for pregnancies at risk of severe complications, such as recurrent late miscarriage and early growth restriction.

During percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) operations, the surgeon is required to define the incision point on the patient's back, align the needle to a preplanned path, and perform puncture operations afterward. The procedure is currently performed manually using ultrasound or fluoroscopy imaging for needle orientation, which, however, implies limited accuracy and low reproducibility. This work incorporates augmented reality (AR) visualization with an optical see-through head-mounted display (OST-HMD) and human-robot collaboration (HRC) framework to empower the surgeon's task completion performance. In detail, eye-to-hand calibration, system registration, and hologram model registration are performed to realize visual guidance. A Cartesian impedance controller is used to guide the operator during the needle-puncture task execution. Experiments are conducted to verify the system performance compared with conventional manual puncture procedures and a 2D monitor-based visualization interface. The results showed that the proposed framework achieves the lowest median and standard deviation error of 3.17 +/- 1.36 mm in translation and 1.2 +/- .9 degrees in orientation across all of the experimental groups, respectively. Furthermore, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration task load index (NASA-TLX) user evaluation results indicate that the proposed framework requires the lowest workload score of 42.5 +/- 13.7 for task completion compared to other experimental setups. The proposed framework exhibits significant potential for clinical application in the PCNL task, as it enhances the surgeon's perception capability, facilitates collision-free needle insertion path planning, and minimizes errors in task completion.

Background: This article presents the system architecture and validation of the NeuroSuitUp body-machine interface (BMI). The platform consists of wearable robotics jacket and gloves in combination with a serious game application for self-paced neurorehabilitation in spinal cord injury and chronic stroke. Methods: The wearable robotics implement a sensor layer, to approximate kinematic chain segment orientation, and an actuation layer. Sensors consist of commercial magnetic, angular rate and gravity (MARG), surface electromyography (sEMG), and flex sensors, while actuation is achieved through electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) and pneumatic actuators. On-board electronics connect to a Robot Operating System environment-based parser/controller and to a Unity-based live avatar representation game. BMI subsystems validation was performed using exercises through a Stereoscopic camera Computer Vision approach for the jacket and through multiple grip activities for the glove. Ten healthy subjects participated in system validation trials, performing three arm and three hand exercises (each 10 motor task trials) and completing user experience questionnaires. Results: Acceptable correlation was observed in 23/30 arm exercises performed with the jacket. No significant differences in glove sensor data during actuation state were observed. No difficulty to use, discomfort, or negative robotics perception were reported. Conclusions: Subsequent design improvements will implement additional absolute orientation sensors, MARG/EMG based biofeedback to the game, improved immersion through Augmented Reality and improvements towards system robustness. Z8 0

Purpose The efficient delivery of environmental information to wayfinders in complex environments is a challenge for information designers. Wayfinding tasks can be quite strenuous and frustrating in the visual absence of dedicated wayfinding information. This study aims to explore the behaviour regarding the use of wayfinding information by navigators in complex environments. Design/methodology/approach An experiment has been conducted in which participants have performed wayfinding tasks in a spatially complex university campus. The participants were instructed to use the think-aloud protocol during the experiment. The behaviour has been recorded using the head-mounted video recorder (GoPro), mobile phone screen (audio\video) recorder and interview. Twelve university students have been selected based on the equal level of spatial ability using the Santa Barbara Sense of Direction scale. Each participant performed three wayfinding tasks to locate the unknown locations inside the campus using a mobile wayfinding application and other information sources. Findings The results of this study demonstrated significant behavioural preferences in acquiring wayfinding information. Most of the participants synthesised the static and mobile wayfinding information sources, while some preferred only the static ones. Gender differences have also been found for planning and route finding. This study recommends the syntheses of static and mobile wayfinding information for designing an efficient institutional wayfinding system. Research limitations/implications The sample size has been kept small because of the qualitative exploration of the wayfinding behaviour regarding the wayfinding information syntheses behaviour. The experiment findings can be further explored with larger data set and controlled behavioural metrics. This study can help understand the user requirements in facilities management for spatially complex institutional environments. Practical implications The current findings can be further used to develop a framework for wayfinding information designers to assist them in understanding the current practices and incorporate them for improving institutional wayfinding systems. The management of the offered facilities within an institution can be further improved to make the space more efficient by saving users' time and efforts. Originality/value Information syntheses or symbiosis of environmental information with the beacon-based digital wayfinding system is a new concept. This study explores the potential of such information syntheses for enhancing the legibility of complex institutional environments.

In football, if one wants to move the game forward tactically, one must quickly understand how and where the players are moving. It is hypothesised that the ability to convert first-person information into a bird's-eye view is crucial for making quick and appropriate judgements. In particular, top players have shown great "depth perception". Although a connection between the conversion of a first-person perspective to a bird's-eye viewpoint and depth perception is plausible, the connection between these two skills has not yet been clarified. More studies are required to determine whether the transfer of a first-person perspective to a bird's-eye perspective plays a role in the superior depth vision demonstrated by great players. Understanding this link might have implications for training and the improvement of athletes' depth perceptions. The primary objective of this study is to design a system capable of systematically assessing first-person and bird's-eye perspective conversion skills using a Head-mounted display (HMD) and to investigate the association between this ability and depth vision. We performed an experiment in which 12 experienced and 12 novice football players viewed randomly positioned player objects in a virtual football environment from a first-person viewpoint and then rebuilt the player objects position from the bird's-eye perspective. The depth perception of an individual was also evaluated. Compared with novice players, experienced players were able to rebuild the placement of player objects with greater precision. There was no significant difference in depth perception between the two groups. In trials comprising 2-8 items, there were no significant differences between experienced and novice individuals in terms of the time necessary to locate objects precisely, regardless of expertise. However, in trials involving 10-16 items, the experienced group had a markedly decreased completion time. However, there was no link between the results and depth perception. These results imply that the capacity to convert first-person perspective to bird's-eye view can be tested. However, the ability to convert a first-person perspective to a bird's- eye view and depth perception may represent separate skills. This suggests that those who are adept at transforming a first-person viewpoint into a bird's-eye view may not necessarily have great depth perception, and vice versa. Further studies are required to fully understand the links among these cognitive skills. Other factors, such as age, sex, and experience, may also influence cognitive skills. Future research should explore these variables to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the relationship between viewpoint transformation and depth perception.

Since the dawn of the computer age, scientists have designed devices to represent molecular structures and developed tools to simulate their dynamic behavior in silico. To this day, these tools remain central to our understanding of biomolecular phenomena. In contrast to other fields such as fluid mechanics or meteorology, the observation of molecular motions at the atomic level remains a major experimental challenge. Continuous advances in computer graphics and numerical computation, combined with the emergence of human-computer interaction approaches, led to the methodology of so-called "interactive molecular simulations", characterized by two main features. First, the possibility to visualize a running simulation in interactive time, that is, compatible with human perception. Second, the possibility to manipulate the simulation interactively by imposing a force, changing a biophysical property, or editing runtime parameters on the fly. Such simulations are still little used in computational biology, where it is more common to run a series of offline simulations and then visualize and analyze the results. However, interactive molecular simulation tools promise to handle time-consuming tasks such as the modeling of particularly complex biomolecular structures more efficiently or to support approaches such as Rational Drug Design with regard to pharmaceutical applications. This article is categorized under: Computer and Information Science > Computer Algorithms and Programming Computer and Information Science > Visualization Software > Simulation Methods Z8 0

Background. Virtual reality (VR) is an emerging trend in stroke rehabilitation. VR gaming consoles in stroke intervention have been shown to increase motivation and enjoyment during exercise. The amount and intensity of movements elicited using these consoles are unknown. Aims. The aims of this study were: 1) to quantify the amount and intensity of movement elicited from both hands of two groups of individuals ([chronic stroke and without a disability [healthy]); 2) to determine the effect of console (Wii/EyeToy) and group (stroke/healthy) on the amount and intensity of upper extremity movement; 3) to determine the effect of console (Wii/EyeToy) and group (stroke/healthy) on the usability and VR experience. Design. A cross-sectional design was taken. Setting. Outpatient rehabilitation setting and healthy participant's homes. Population. Participants included ten adults with stroke and ten adults without a disability. Methods. Participants experienced two games from each console. Amount and intensity of movement was measured using accelerometers on both wrists, while the virtual experience and usability was determined with questionnaires. Results. No significant differences were found between the consoles usability and experience. EyeToy elicited significantly greater activity count than Wii among the healthy participants (P=0.028) and significantly greater movement intensity in both the stroke (P=0.005) and healthy (P=0.005) groups. Conclusion. Both consoles rated high for usability, enjoyment and satisfaction highlighting their suitability for a range of individuals in stroke rehabilitation. EyeToy provides increased movement and movement intensity. Clinical Rehabilitation Impact. Both consoles are suitable for use in stroke rehabilitation however this information can be helpful to clinicians while selecting a gaming console according to the type and intensity of movements that he/she aims to encourage during therapy.

Most of the previous haptic interfaces provides tactile feedback directly to the hand, which can impede the operability. Noting the issue, we propose a haptic system that can provide 3D vector information with continuous skin-stretch feedback. We designed the system to render a 3D vector by combining two orthogonally located continuous skin-stretch modules whose orientation could be controlled. To optimize the stimuli, we conducted a psychophysical experiment that measured human sensitivity to the orientation of the continuous skin-stretch feedback. Considering the asymmetry of tactile sensitivity, we collected the data at two locations of the forearm. The results indicate that the participants were more sensitive to the angle change when the skin-stretch feedback was aligned in the proximal-distal direction. Based on the information, we built an algorithm to set the rotation angle of the skin-stretch module to render any target 3D vector. We conducted two experiments for virtual interaction to evaluate our proposed method. In Experiment 1, we tested if adjusting the skin-stretch orientation could improve the human perception of the virtual surface features, and the result indicated a significant improvement in the surface feature perception with the orientation adjustment. Experiment 2 tested a participant's ability to follow a random 3D contour under two conditions, visual cue (V) condition, and visual and continuous skin-stretch (V+CF) cues condition. For the V+CF condition, the skin-stretch interface rendered the error 3D vector to the participant's forearm. The result indicated a significantly lower root-mean-square error for the V+CF condition than the V condition. Thus, the addition of the continuous skin-stretch feedback benefitted the participants to stay closer to the target virtual contour than with visual information only.

Purpose Chatbots represent an innovative channel for retailers to meet young customers' needs anywhere and at any time. Being an emergent technology, however, it is important to investigate more thoroughly how users perceive it, and which are the variables that enhance a positive attitude towards this technology. On this premise, this study applies a social relationship perspective to the design of chatbots addressed to younger consumers. Design/methodology/approach The study adopts a between-participants factorial design to investigate the effects of visual cues (avatar presence vs avatar absence) and interaction styles (social-oriented vs task-oriented) on social presence and how this, in turn, enhances millennials' perceived enjoyment, trust and, ultimately, attitude towards the chatbot. A survey experiment was employed to conduct the study on data collected from 193 Italian millennials. Findings The results show that applying a social-oriented interaction style increases users' perception of social presence, while an insignificant effect was found for avatar presence. The partial least square structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) analysis further confirms the hypothesised model. Originality/value The adoption of new digital technologies such as chatbots is likely to have a far reaching effect on retailers, consumers, employees and society. For this reason, a broad understanding of the phenomenon is needed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to provide results from an experimental design in which both interaction style (social- vs task-oriented) and avatar (presence vs absence) of a chatbot are manipulated to directly explore social presence and its effect on trust, perceived enjoyment and millennials' attitude towards a chatbot applied for retailing purposes.

Objectives: 1) To enhance the content of an ontology for designing virtual environments (VEs) for upper limb motor rehabilitation of stroke patients according to the suggestions and comments of rehabilitation specialists and software developers, 2) to characterize the perceived importance level of the ontology, 3) to determine the perceived usefulness of the ontology, and 4) to identify the safety characteristics of the ontology for VEs design according to the rehabilitation specialists. Methods: Using two semi-structured Web questionnaires, we asked six rehabilitation specialists and six software developers to provide us with their perception regarding the level of importance and the usability of the ontology. From their responses we have identified themes related to perceived and required safety characteristics of the ontology. Results: Significant differences in the importance level were obtained for the Stroke Disability, VE Configuration, Outcome Measures, and Safety Calibration classes, which were perceived as highly important by rehabilitation specialists. Regarding usability, the ontology was perceived by both groups with high usefulness, ease of use, learnability and intention of use. Concerning the thematic analysis of recommendations, eight topics for safety characteristics of the ontology were identified: adjustment of therapy strategies; selection and delimitation of movements; selection and proper calibration of the interaction device; proper selection of measuring instruments; gradual modification of the difficulty of the exercise; adaptability and variability of therapy exercises; feedback according to the capabilities of the patient; and real-time support for exercise training. Conclusions: The rehabilitation specialists and software developers confirmed the importance of the information contained in the ontology regarding motor rehabilitation of the upper limb. Their recommendations highlight the safety features and the advantages of the ontology as a guide for the effective design of VEs.

In this article, we describe two techniques to enable haptic-guided teleoperation using 7-DoF cobot arms as master and slave devices. A shortcoming of using cobots as master-slave systems is the lack of force feedback at the master side. However, recent developments in cobot technologies have brought in affordable, flexible, and safe torque-controlled robot arms, which can be programmed to generate force feedback to mimic the operation of a haptic device. In this article, we use two Franka Emika Panda robot arms as a twin master-slave system to enable haptic-guided teleoperation. We propose a two layer mechanism to implement force feedback due to 1) object interactions in the slave workspace, and 2) virtual forces, e.g. those that can repel from static obstacles in the remote environment or provide task-related guidance forces. We present two different approaches for force rendering and conduct an experimental study to evaluate the performance and usability of these approaches in comparison to teleoperation without haptic guidance. Our results indicate that the proposed joint torque coupling method for rendering task forces improves energy requirements during haptic guided telemanipulation, providing realistic force feedback by accurately matching the slave torque readings at the master side.

Interacting with 2D displays, such as computer screens, smartphones, and TV, is currently a part of our daily routine; however, our visual system is built for processing 3D worlds. We examined the cognitive load associated with a simple and a complex task of learning paper-folding (origami) by observing 2D or stereoscopic 3D displays. While connected to an electroencephalogram (EEG) system, participants watched a 2D video of an instructor demonstrating the paper-folding tasks, followed by a stereoscopic 3D projection of the same instructor (a digital avatar) illustrating identical tasks. We recorded the power of alpha and theta oscillations and calculated the cognitive load index (CLI) as the ratio of the average power of frontal theta (Fz.) and parietal alpha (Pz). The results showed a significantly higher cognitive load index associated with processing the 2D projection as compared to the 3D projection; additionally, changes in the average theta Fz power were larger for the 2D conditions as compared to the 3D conditions, while alpha average Pz power values were similar for 2D and 3D conditions for the less complex task and higher in the 3D state for the more complex task. The cognitive load index was lower for the easier task and higher for the more complex task in 2D and 3D. In addition, participants with lower spatial abilities benefited more from the 3D compared to the 2D display. These findings have implications for understanding cognitive processing associated with 2D and 3D worlds and for employing stereoscopic 3D technology over 2D displays in designing emerging virtual and augmented reality applications. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Wearable computing devices worn on the body provide the potential for digital interaction in the world. A new stage of computing technology at the beginning of the 21st Century links the personal and the pervasive through mobile wearables. The convergence between the miniaturisation of microchips (nanotechnology), intelligent textile or interfacial materials production, advances in biotechnology and the growth of wireless, ubiquitous computing emphasises not only mobility but integration into clothing or the human body. In artistic contexts one expects such integrated wearable devices to have the two-way function of interface instruments (e.g. sensor data acquisition and exchange) worn for particular purposes, either for communication with the environment or various aesthetic and compositional expressions. 'Wearable performance' briefly surveys the context for wearables in the performance arts and distinguishes display and performative/interfacial garments. It then focuses on the authors' experiments with 'design in motion' and digital performance, examining prototyping at the DAP-Lab which involves transdisciplinary convergences between fashion and dance, interactive system architecture, electronic textiles, wearable technologies and digital animation. The concept of an 'evolving' garment design that is materialised (mobilised) in live performance between partners originates from DAP Lab's work with telepresence and distributed media addressing the 'connective tissues' and 'wearabilities' of projected bodies through a study of shared embodiment and perception/proprioception in the wearer (tactile sensory processing). Such notions of wearability are applied both to the immediate sensory processing on the performer's body and to the processing of the responsive, animate environment.

Mobile crowdsensing (MCS) is a new perception mode for solving large-scale mobile sensing tasks. Traditional data transmission methods are inapplicable, as the MCS is affected by coverage, user preference, and network access cost. Opportunistic network data transmission schemes in MCS have recently witnessed a surge of research efforts due to their ability of high delivery and low consumption. However, existing works only focus on the impact of the geographical location of nodes on user needs or the interaction between social information and data, which do not take into account the temporal and spatial characteristics of nodes. To address these issues, this paper proposes a multiattribute routing method based on Pareto optimal (MR-Pareto) solution to construct a balance between the energy consumption and resource constraints of nodes in transmission protocols. First, the attribute relationship between nodes is analyzed, which was aimed at selecting the nodes within a contact time threshold. Then, based on a nondominated sorting approach, we achieve a Pareto optimal set of candidate nodes. Finally, the relay nodes for forwarding messages are determined by comparing the cache size and the remaining energy. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method has low network overhead, low packet loss, and high message delivery rate, compared to epidemic and prophet routing strategies.

BackgroundA new patient monitoring technology called Visual Patient, which transforms numerical and waveform data into a virtual model (an avatar) of the monitored patient, has been shown to improve the perception of vital signs compared to conventional patient monitoring. In order to gain a deeper understanding of the opinions of potential future users regarding the new technology, we have analyzed the answers of two large groups of anesthetists using two different study methods.MethodsFirst, we carried out a qualitative analysis guided by the consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research checklist. For this analysis, we interviewed 128 anesthesiologists, asking: Where do you see advantages in Visual Patient monitoring? and afterward identified major and minor themes in their answers. In a second study, an online survey with 38 anesthesiologists at two different institutions, we added a quantitative part in which anesthesiologists rated statements based on the themes identified in the prior analysis on an ordinal rating scale.ResultsWe identified four high-level themes: quick situation recognition, intuitiveness, unique design characteristics, and potential future uses, and eight subthemes.The quantitative questions raised for each major theme were: 1. The Visual Patient technology enabled me to get a quick overview of the situation. (63% of the participants agreed or very much agreed to this statement). 2. I found the Visual Patient technology to be intuitive and easy to learn. (82% agreed or very much agreed to this statement). 3. The visual design features of the Visual Patient technology (e.g., the avatar representation) are not helpful for patient monitoring. (11% agreed to this statement). 4. I think the Visual Patient technology might be helpful for non-monitor experts (e.g., surgeons) in the healthcare system. (53% of the participants agreed or strongly agreed).ConclusionThis mixed method study provides evidence that the included anesthesiologists considered the new avatar-based technology to be intuitive and easy to learn and that the technology enabled them to get an overview of the situation quickly. Only a few users considered the avatar presentation to be unhelpful for patient monitoring and about half think it might be useful for non-experts.

Human-computer interaction (HCI) and software engineering (SE) are undoubtedly important domains for the development of interactive systems. The quality of an interactive system is usually considered dependent on the user interface design and evaluation, which implies the use of HCI and SE approaches on the adequate software process. With the wide use of software process capability maturity (SPCM) models in the industry and their role of proposing best practices for software development and maintenance, some questions come up: To what extent are HCI approaches known and used to develop interactive systems? What is their level of use compared to SE approaches? To answer these questions, we conducted an empirical study in the Brazilian industry. Thirty-six official consultants for the 2 SPCM models used in Brazil (CMMI-DEV and MR-MPS-SW) provided us with their perception of knowledge and use concerning a set of predefined categories of approaches for HCI and SE that support the engineering practices of those SPCM models. By using a paired t test, we concluded that consultants of those models do not know and do not use HCI approaches as well as they know and use SE approaches. Moreover, they know little about HCI approaches, which may justify their poor use.

Background: Visual disability is a growing problem for many middle-aged and older adults. Conventional mobility aids, suchas white canes and guide dogs, have notable limitations that have led to increasing interest in electronic travel aids (ETAs). Despiteremarkable progress, current ETAs lack empirical evidence and realistic testing environments and often focus on the substitutionor augmentation of a single sense. Objective: This study aims to (1) establish a novel virtual reality (VR) environment to test the efficacy of ETAs in complexurban environments for a simulated visual impairment (VI) and (2) evaluate the impact of haptic and audio feedback, individuallyand combined, on navigation performance, movement behavior, and perception. Through this study, we aim to address gaps toadvance the pragmatic development of assistive technologies (ATs) for persons with VI. Methods: The VR platform was designed to resemble a subway station environment with the most common challenges facedby persons with VI during navigation. This environment was used to test our multisensory, AT-integrated VR platform among72 healthy participants performing an obstacle avoidance task while experiencing symptoms of VI. Each participant performedthe task 4 times: once with haptic feedback, once with audio feedback, once with both feedback types, and once without anyfeedback. Data analysis encompassed metrics such as completion time, head and body orientation, and trajectory length andsmoothness. To evaluate the effectiveness and interaction of the 2 feedback modalities, we conducted a 2-way repeated measuresANOVA on continuous metrics and a Scheirer-Ray-Hare test on discrete ones. We also conducted a descriptive statistical analysisof participants'answers to a questionnaire, assessing their experience and preference for feedback modalities. Results: Results from our study showed that haptic feedback significantly reduced collisions (P=.05) and the variability of thepitch angle of the head (P=.02). Audio feedback improved trajectory smoothness (P=.006) and mitigated the increase in thetrajectory length from haptic feedback alone (P=.04). Participants reported a high level of engagement during the experiment(52/72, 72%) and found it interesting (42/72, 58%). However, when it came to feedback preferences, less than half of the participants(29/72, 40%) favored combined feedback modalities. This indicates that a majority preferred dedicated single modalities overcombined ones. Conclusions: AT is crucial for individuals with VI; however, it often lacks user-centered design principles. Research shouldprioritize consumer-oriented methodologies, testing devices in a staged manner with progression toward more realistic, ecologically alid settings to ensure safety. Our multisensory, AT-integrated VR system takes a holistic approach, offering a first step towardenhancing users'spatial awareness, promoting safer mobility, and holds potential for applications in medical treatment, training,and rehabilitation. Technological advancements can further refine such devices, significantly improving independence and qualityof life for those with VI

The bulk of rural Africa (as well as much of the third world) remains un-electrified and is underserved or poorly served by any other form of modern energy infrastructure. In case of a deep sub-Sahara African country like Kenya it is often dismissively argued that lack of finance and appropriate technology are the obvious causes. This argument would however not hold when applied to the more technologically advanced South Africa where a whopping 50% of rural households still suffer a similar fate. The common perception is that in the presence of modern technology the desired social change process will automatically commence. Unfortunately (and possibly due to pressure from donors) typical post project reports from the third world often contain deliberate commissions or omissions that essentially belie the grim reality on the ground. What seems to lack is a well-defined yardstick or standard check-off list as to the essential attributes of a sustainable energy dissemination project. Problems in modern society are now largely tackled using a wide range of software applications. However even with all the well-tested skills in computer coding endless consumer complaints abound. "Usability Engineering" is an example a state-of-the-art scientific tool that has been extensively used in recent times by the software design industry to tackle such problems as enhancement of the human/ computer interface. This paper proposes that these modern scientific tools could be adopted to create a yardstick and break the intangible technological barrier to African rural modernization to better the lot of our communities. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Mandibular angle reduction is a popular and efficient procedure widely used to alter the facial contour. The primary surgical instruments, the reciprocating saw, and the round burr, employed in the surgery have a common feature: operating at a high speed. Generally, inexperienced surgeons need a long-time practice to learn how to minimize the risks caused by the uncontrolled contacts and cutting motions in manipulation of instruments with high-speed reciprocation or rotation. A virtual reality-based surgical simulator for the mandibular angle reduction was designed and implemented on a compute unified device architecture (CUDA)-based platform in this paper. High-fidelity visual and haptic feedbacks are provided to enhance the perception in a realistic virtual surgical environment. The impulse-based haptic models were employed to simulate the contact forces and torques on the instruments. It provides convincing haptic sensation for surgeons to control the instruments under different reciprocation or rotation velocities. The real-time methods for bone removal and reconstruction during surgical procedures have been proposed to support realistic visual feedbacks. The simulated contact forces were verified by comparing against the actual force data measured through the constructed mechanical platform. An empirical study based on the patient-specific data was conducted to evaluate the ability of the proposed system in training surgeons with various experiences. The results confirm the validity of our simulator.

Mobile short-form videos on social media apps are increasingly popular. Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) theories may be extended to short-form video apps to understand and improve app user experience, as well as to persuade new technology-adoption. The present study examined the psychological responses and persuasive outcomes associated with short-form videos on a mobile social media app. In a 2 (low- V.S. high-level humor) X 2 (first- V.S. third-person view) between-subject experimental design, participants (N = 81) were randomly assigned one of the four sets of videos about smart homes; post-viewing, they filled out an online questionnaire. Results of ANCOVA demonstrated significant effects of videos' humor and camera view on the viewer perceptions of Immersion, Social Presence and Entertainment but not on Spatial Presence and Perceptual Realism: Humor had mixed effects on the interaction between users and the mobile app; the first-person camera view elevated viewers' Immersion, Social Presence, Entertainment. As a PROCESS mediation test showed, Social Presence mediated (by 56.78%) the indirect link between the level of humor getting from a video and the viewers' post-viewing intent to adopt the technology depicted in the video. The study demonstrated values of extending HCI theories to mobile short-form video apps. Implications were discussed in terms of using appropriate humor and camera view for improving user experience and persuading serious agenda. Z8 2

Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) are known to have significantly limited social interaction abilities, which are often manifested in different non-verbal cues of communication such as facial expression, atypical eye gaze response. While prior works leveraged the role of pupil response for screening ASD, limited works have been carried out to find the influence of emotion stimuli on pupil response for ASD screening. We, in this paper, design, develop, and evaluate a light-weight LSTM (Long-short Term Memory) model that captures pupil responses (pupil diameter, fixation duration, and fixation location) based on the social interaction with a virtual agent and detects ASD sessions based on short interactions. Our findings demonstrate that all the pupil responses vary significantly in the ASD sessions in response to the different emotion (angry, happy, neutral) stimuli applied. These findings reinforce the ASD screening with an average accuracy of 77%, while the accuracy improves further (>80%) with respect to angry and happy emotion stimuli.

Human-robot collaboration presents a promising application in customized production. The utilization of digital twin technology, an advanced form of virtual reality interaction, is pivotal in augmenting the capabilities of human-robot collaboration by enhancing perception and interaction dynamics. Human-robot collaboration digital twins have been proposed to create collaboration strategies, simulate collaborative processes, and guarantee individual safety. Nevertheless, there remain obstacles in the implementation of digital twins within human-robot collaboration. One notable challenge involves developing a user-friendly and easily accessible digital twin management and control system that is well-suited for human-robot collaboration. The human-robot collaboration digital twin is a sophisticated system that encompasses both physical and virtual environments. Effectively managing diverse resources within this system, devising collaboration strategies, and overseeing the collaboration process is essential for the standardized utilization of digital twins in human-robot collaboration. In response to the specific requirements of digital twins in this context, a web-based system has been conceptualized and implemented for managing and controlling human-robot collaboration digital twins. The system is structured based on the browser/server architecture model. Its functional design is implemented through a modular approach. The server-side database management system chosen is MySQL, while the programming and development of the control system are carried out using the Microsoft.Net Framework 4.8 on the Visual Studio 2022 platform. The system's functional modules are exemplified through a case study on human-robot collaborative assembly. The findings of this study offer insights that can guide the standardized management and application of digital twins within the realm of human-robot collaboration.

Given the immense popularity of information and communication technologies, it is a time of radical change. In contact with modern technology, people are spending their time in virtual worlds and a large part of this time is spent playing games. This brings into question the concept of identification and representation within game narrative. Within this paper, narrative or 'storytelling' is explored within the realm of videogames, with specific reference to 'interactivity' and 'character immersion' in two war game case studies, Middle-Earth: Shadow of Mordor and Anglo-Boer War. Within the interactive realm of video games, players play an active role in determining the flow and outcome of the story. Critics have argued that games can transmit different ideologies to players. By actively identifying with the characters on screen (and determining their ultimate path) one may argue that playing a game set against a historical backdrop may have an active influence on their ideological perception of the historical events and in turn influence their own identity and how they navigate contemporary society. This paper is a proposal that the interactive quality of video game storytelling infers that narrative can be self-constructed, especially with the right design choices. But can games arguably be used as a tool for psychological warfare? The authors interrogate the 'interactive meaning making process' in the two games; and clarifies it by interviewing a developer of one of the games.

For a fully immersive and compelling VR experience, the acoustic-illusion of being 'present' in the virtual world must be created. To achieve this illusion two aspects are compulsory: (1) authentic spatial audio production and (2) the need to track and adapt the audio scene to the listener's head position and orientation. This paper shows how Scene-based audio (SBA), often synonymous with Higher Order Ambisonics (HOA), is ideal for VR because its ease of acoustic capture, offline content creation, post-production, transmission and interactive rendering. Compared to object-based audio, the rendering complexity is much lower for SBA. Also, SBA can offer higher and more coherent spatial fidelity when compared to channel based audio. One of the advantages of SBA is flexible rendering, which means that the same audio stream can be rendered to various speaker formats including binaural rendering for headphone consumption. The paper discusses the need for efficient SBA compression for VR content delivery, and presents MPEG-H as an efficient and versatile delivery system for SBA. For a personalized VR experience, accurate binaural rendering is essential. SBA can be efficiently binauralized. Its number of convolutions is proportional to the number of HOA coefficients, rather than proportional to the number of virtual loudspeakers. This means that SBA can render to a high number of virtual loudspeakers without impacting the binauralization computation cost. Furthermore, to improve the spatial perception, SBA binauralization can utilize grids of ideally positioned virtual loudspeakers based on platonic solids or otherwise regularly spaced loudspeaker configurations that are impractical in reality and unsupported in channel-based audio formats. Interactive soundfield rotation in real time is indispensable for creating VR experience. We show how SBA can be rotated and even further enhanced with other user-controlled effects, such as zooming. The paper will discuss use cases to demonstrate the capture, processing, and playback of SBA and will show potential pitfalls and design strategies for an end-to-end spatial audio system for VR. The authors will then conclude that SBA is a robust and compelling audio format for VR, and that SBA can be easily distributed via broadcast or OTT for real-time end consumer use.

Objectives: We compare expert opinion with perceptual judgment regarding the influence of color on the perceived height and width of interior rooms. Background: We hypothesize that contrary to popular belief, ceiling and wall lightness have additive effects on perceived height, whereas the lightness contrast between these surfaces is less important. We assessed the intuitions of architectural experts as to which surface colors maximize apparent height and compared these intuitions with psychophysical height and width estimates for rooms differing in ceiling, floor, and wall lightness. Method: Experiment 1 was a survey of architectural experts and nonexperts. Experiments 2 and 3 presented virtual rooms varying in physical height, physical width, and surface lightness. Results: In Experiment 1, both experts and nonexperts erroneously assumed that the lightness contrast between ceiling and walls influences perceived height. Experiment 2 showed that the lightness contrast does not determine apparent height but that ceiling and wall lightness have additive effects. Experiment 3 demonstrated a decrease in perceived width with physical height, whereas the perceived height was not related to physical width. Apparent width was unaffected by ceiling lightness. Conclusion: Light ceiling and light walls make a room appear higher, whereas floor color has a weaker effect. We also found evidence for an asymmetric interaction between height and width. Application: The question of how to color walls and ceiling to maximize the apparent size of a room can be answered empirically. Aesthetic considerations may interfere with the correct assessment of the effects of color in experts.

Background: Despite increasing evidence for the effectiveness of virtual reality (VR)-based therapy in stroke rehabilitation, few knowledge translation (KT) resources exist to support clinical integration. KT interventions addressing known barriers and facilitators to VR use are required. When environmental barriers to VR integration are less amenable to change, KT interventions can target modifiable barriers related to therapist knowledge and skills. Methods: A multi-faceted KT intervention was designed and implemented to support physical and occupational therapists in two stroke rehabilitation units in acquiring proficiency with use of the Interactive Exercise Rehabilitation System (IREX; GestureTek). The KT intervention consisted of interactive e-learning modules, hands-on workshops and experiential practice. Evaluation included the Assessing Determinants of Prospective Take Up of Virtual Reality (ADOPT-VR) Instrument and self-report confidence ratings of knowledge and skills pre- and post-study. Usability of the IREX was measured with the System Usability Scale (SUS). A focus group gathered therapist experiences. Frequency of IREX use was recorded for 6 months post-study. Results: Eleven therapists delivered a total of 107 sessions of VR-based therapy to 34 clients with stroke. On the ADOPT-VR, significant pre-post improvements in therapist perceived behavioral control (p = 0.003), self-efficacy (p = 0.005) and facilitating conditions (p = 0.019) related to VR use were observed. Therapist intention to use VR did not change. Knowledge and skills improved significantly following e-learning completion (p = 0.001) and was sustained 6 months post-study. Below average perceived usability of the IREX (19th percentile) was reported. Lack of time was the most frequently reported barrier to VR use. A decrease in frequency of perceived barriers to VR use was not significant (p = 0.159). Two therapists used the IREX sparingly in the 6 months following the study. Therapists reported that client motivation to engage with VR facilitated IREX use in practice but that environmental and IREX-specific barriers limited use. Conclusions: Despite increased knowledge and skills in VR use, the KT intervention did not alter the number of perceived barriers to VR use, intention to use or actual use of VR. Poor perceived system usability had an impact on integration of this particular VR system into clinical practice.

Highly automated vehicles (HAVs) will soon be introduced into mixed urban traffic. Pedestrians might have an idea of HAVs. Nevertheless, they probably have never interacted with them before. Moreover, pedestrians will not be able to communicate with HAVs like they are used to with manual vehicles. External human-machine interfaces (eHMIs) are possible design solutions for HAVs to ensure safe interaction with other road users. Light-based eHMIs positively affected pedestrians' trust ratings, perceived safety, and willingness to cross. However, previous studies often neglected the effect of vehicle size, although larger-sized HAVs could be potentially perceived as the more significant threat. Additionally, the relationship between vehicle kinematics and eHMIs for differently sized HAVs remains an underexplored research topic. This study investigated the effects of vehicle size (small vs. large), eHMI state (dynamic eHMI vs. static eHMI vs. no eHMI), and vehicle kinematics (yielding vs. non-yielding) on pedestrian crossing behavior and their subjective assessment. In virtual reality, we created a shared space traffic scenario, in which the eHMI and vehicle kinematics matched or did not match. For yielding conditions, the results showed that participants felt more aroused with larger HAVs than with smaller HAVs. Moreover, pedestrians initiated their crossing significantly earlier when both vehicle sizes had a dynamic eHMI compared to a static eHMI vs. no eHMI. Additionally, pedestrians evaluated a dynamic eHMI with higher trust ratings, higher perceived safety, and more positive affective reactions. The results manifested that the use of dynamic eHMIs can effectively enhance pedestrian-vehicle communication with a large and a small HAV. For non-matching conditions, the participants tended to rely on the vehicle kinematics for both vehicle sizes. Overall, the study highlighted the potential of eHMIs for pedestrian interactions with HAVs of varying sizes when they are well-coordinated with the vehicle kinematics, aiming to enhance safety and efficiency in mixed-traffic environments.

There is a growing community of researchers who are interested in establishing a science of the experiential or 'lived' aspects of the human mind. This shift from cognitive science to consciousness science presents a profound challenge to synthetic approaches. To be sure, symbolic artificial intelligence constituted the original foundation of cognitive science; subsequent progress in robotics has helped to pioneer a new understanding of the mind as essentially embodied, situated, and dynamical, while artificial life has informed the concept of biological self-organization. However, with regard to the development of a science of the experienced mind, the relevance of these synthetic approaches still remains uncertain. We propose to address the challenge of first-person experience by designing new human-computer interfaces, which aim to artificially mediate a participant's sensorimotor loop such that novel kinds of experience can emerge for the user. The advantage of this synthetic approach is that computer interface technology enables us to systematically vary the ways in which participants experience the world and thereby allows us to systematically investigate 'mind-as-it-could-be' from the first-person perspective. We illustrate the basic principles of this method by drawing on examples from our research in sensory substitution, virtual reality, and interactive installation.

Objective: To assess the effectiveness of a computerized visual perception rehabilitation programme using motion tracking technology for visual perception impairment. Design: Randomized controlled, single-blinded, pilot clinical trial study. Setting: Inpatient rehabilitation hospital. Subjects: Sixteen left hemiplegic patients with visual perceptional impairment. Intervention: Subjects were randomly assigned to receive either (1) participation in a computerized visual perception rehabilitation programme with an interactive patient-computer interface applying motion tracking technology based on the CAMSHIFT algorithm or (2) use of the PSS CogRehab program for three sessions per week, 30 minutes per session for four weeks. There were eight patients in each group. Main measures: Mini-Mental Status Examination, Motor-free Visual Perception Test and Modified Barthel Index were assessed at the beginning and end of the training. A survey was conducted to evaluate the degree of patients' interest using an interest scale. Results: After training, the mean (SID) Motor-free Visual Perception Test score increased significantly in both experimental group (from 65.8 (19.5) to 77.8 (28.7)) and control group (from 68.3 (11.4) to 74.1 (14,8)) (P < 0.01). Modified Barthel Index score increased significantly in both groups, with the experimental group recording a higher increase, Mean (SID) interest scale score was greater in the experimental group (2.2 (0.8)) than in the control group (1.3 (0.7)) (P < 0.01). Conclusions: A computerized visual perception rehabilitation programme with interactive computer interface using motion tracking technology could be considered as a treatment option for stroke patients with visual perception impairment. Z8 0

We present a novel three Revolute-Revolute-Spherical (3RRS) wearable fingertip device for the rendering of stiffness information. It is composed of a static upper body and a mobile end-effector. The upper body is located on the nail side of the finger, supporting three small servo motors, and the mobile end-effector is in contact with the finger pulp. The two parts are connected by three articulated legs, actuated by the motors. The end-effector can move toward the user's fingertip and rotate it to simulate contacts with arbitrarily-oriented surfaces. Moreover, a vibrotactile motor placed below the end-effector conveys vibrations to the fingertip. The proposed device weights 25 g for 35 x 50 x 48 mm dimensions. To test the effectiveness of our wearable haptic device and its level of wearability, we carried out two experiments, enrolling 30 human subjects in total. The first experiment tested the capability of our device in differentiating stiffness information, while the second one focused on evaluating its applicability in an immersive virtual reality scenario. Results showed the effectiveness of the proposed wearable solution, with a JND for stiffness of 208.5 +/- 17.2 N/m. Moreover, all subjects preferred the virtual interaction experience when provided with wearable cutaneous feedback, even if results also showed that subjects found our device still a bit difficult to use.

Several decades of research and development placed new tools in the hands of engineers, builders, supervisors, surveyors, contractors and all people associated with the construction industry. In this paper, we are referring to computer software developed by the author's team that uses Building Information Modeling and available modern technologies, enabling data inspection and results interpretation through simple observation in a stereoscopic virtual world. It is a tool for research, perception, verification of intuition and self-instruction. Here, this advanced technology is introduced as an influential decision making tool in construction management. It is well known that managerial decisions in the construction industry are very critical because possible negative consequences are irreversible. It is also known that construction management deals constantly with multi parameter problems. Therefore correct decision making is not easy. This stands not only when traditional construction methods are used, as for example in small scale buildings in many Mediterranean countries, but also when highly industrialized procedures of either open or closed construction systems are followed, as those in large scale structures and massive developments. With the offered virtual reality software tool any potential on the spot modification of the building structure is shown in detail, the influences on the architectural aesthetics and environmental footprint are considered, the effects on the static and seismic response of structures are taken into account, the recalculated reinforcement is automatically implemented in the structural framework, the detailed drawings are readjusted accordingly and the moderated costs are shown in a precise analytical quantity survey report. Furthermore, introducing the Interactive Step Optimization Method along with the software tool, the scientific knowledge is clearly established and the managerial decisions are surely facilitated. Safe conclusions are clearly made by analyzing the virtual actions and their consequences instead of the decisive actual ones, thus limiting the risk of any erroneous decisions. A representative example dealing with length changes of a full-height continuous column of a three-storey building serves to illustrate the process and to justify the reported considerations. It is emphasized that all the above take place in real time, in an environment formed by continuous frame projections, maintaining a constant three-dimensional visual contact with the detailed building model and providing stereoscopic visualization (via stereoscopic glasses), human interface, animating capability, speech response and all the technological features that any contemporary multimedia may offer. If the Chinese saying "one picture is equivalent to 1000 words" is true, then viewing 60 such pictures per second is equivalent to condensed human experience leading to correct managerial decisions through precise scientific observation and verification.

Purpose Although several different learning technologies have been integrated into the face-to-face (F2F) learning approach, the effective implementation of mobile learning (m-learning) is still at an early stage. This may be due to the lack of understanding factors that affect learners' acceptance of m-learning. Design/methodology/approach Considering the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT) as a theoretical background, this research investigates m-learning adoption in Saudi Arabia. The research framework extends the UTAUT by including intrinsic motivation, mobile learning self-efficacy and perceived satisfaction. A total of 200 higher education students voluntarily participated in the research. The application of the partial least square technique indicated that the proposed model can predict m-learning adoption adequately in Saudi Arabia (R-2 = 0.73.8). Findings The research outcomes are significant for educational institutions and teachers to implement m-learning effectively. Many recommendations can be suggested to help enhance learners' willingness to adopt m-learning technology: Teachers need to design their courses in an interactive way and provide several different activities to ensure that learners obtain real benefits in their learning outcomes. When learners have positive perceptions about the use of this technology in the learning process, such perceptions should be supported by providing beneficial courses. Originality/value This research examines the effectiveness of the extended UTAUT to predict m-learning adoption in Saudi Arabia higher education. This could provide a significant contribution to the existing evidence about the validity of the model in different learning cultures and contexts.

Computer simulated avatars and humanoid robots have an increasingly prominent place in today's world. Acceptance of these synthetic characters depends on their ability to properly and recognizably convey basic emotion states to a user population. This study presents an analysis of audiovisual features that can be used to predict user evaluations of synthetic character emotion displays. These features include prosodic, spectral, and semantic properties of audio signals in addition to FACS-inspired video features [11]. The goal of this paper is to identify the audio-visual features that explain the variance in the emotional evaluations of naive listeners through the utilization of information gain feature selection in conjunction with support vector machines. These results suggest that there exists an emotionally salient subset of the audio-visual feature space. The features that contribute most to the explanation of evaluator variance are the prior knowledge audio statistics (e.g., average valence rating), the high energy band spectral components, and the quartile pitch range. This feature subset should be correctly modeled and implemented in the design of synthetic expressive displays to convey the desired emotions.

Virtual or 3-D audio display technology has become a reality. This type of system has the capability of synthesizing signals presented over headphones that give the user the illusion that the sound is emanating from some external location. The development of this technology, its applications, and its performance in both laboratory and flight test situations are presented. Potential fighter aircraft applications include threat location warning, wingman location indication, spatially separated multi-channel communications, and audio target location indications. The laboratory performance data show an average localization error in azimuth of approximately 5 degrees, a minimum audible angle of approximately 5 degrees and a speech intelligibility improvement of up to 28%. Flight test results demonstrated successful audio cued target acquisition, a: subjective decrease in target acquisition times, a subjective improvement in speech intelligibility, a subjective increase in situational awareness, and a subjective decrease in pilot workload, A summary of both laboratory and flight test results is presented in addition to recommendations for future research.

Objective: To test six different methods of directing a user's attention in a peripheral head mounted display assisted visual search task. Background: Each time a user needs to shift their attention between virtual information and their environment has a cost. The faster a user can process a guiding cue and the fewer times they need to return to it, the more efficient that cue will be at directing a user's attention. The most effective method, creating a visual effect at the location of the target, is not suitable for peripheral head mounted displays. This study tests alternative guiding cues better suited to these devices. Method: Participants searched for a singleton target hidden among 299 distractors while directed with one of six device-delivered guiding cues. Search times were recorded. Results: A static region map was the most efficient and most preferred cue. Static and dynamic directional cues were also effective in comparison to non-guided search. Cues designed to work solely within the participants' peripheral vision were relatively ineffective Conclusion: Guidance cues that direct a user's attention to targets within the real environment do not need to precisely lead to the target. It is instead more efficient to lead a user to the general vicinity of the target quickly and then have the user revert to their natural visual search behaviour. Application: This finding is broadly useful when assisting visual search tasks with handheld or worn devices which do not cover the user's full field of view. Precis: This study tested six different methods of guiding attention in a peripheral head-mounted display assisted visual search task. This study compared static, dynamic and peripheral-vision endogenous cues to targets and found a static simple map cue both fastest and most preferred by users. Z8 0

Strong and robust stimulations to human skins with low driving voltages under high moisture working conditions are desirable for wearable haptic feedback applications. Here, a soft actuator based on the "air bubble " electret structure is developed to work in high-moisture environments and produce haptic sensations to human skin with low driving voltages. Experimentally, the water soaking and drying process has been conducted repeatedly for the first time and the 20th time to test the antimoisture ability of the actuator as it recovers its output force up 90 and 65% of the initial value, respectively. The threshold voltages for sensible haptic sensations for the fingertip and palm of volunteers have been characterized as 7 and 10 V, respectively. Furthermore, a demonstration example has been designed and conducted in a virtual boxing game to generate the designated haptic sensations according to the gaming conditions with an accuracy of 98% for more than 100 tests. As such, the design principle, performance characteristic, and demonstration example in this work could inspire various applications with improved reliability for wearable haptic devices.

As avatars gain prominence in health-promoting applications, understanding how health-related avatar appearance characteristics could affect users' behavior is crucial. Drawing upon the Proteus effect, avatars can positively and negatively affect health behaviors, depending on whether the avatar appearance is aligned with stereotypes about healthy or unhealthy behavior. Investigating avatar appearances is essential to understand potential negative health effects. Three experiments in a non-immersive virtual supermarket examined whether controlling an overweight avatar negatively affected (1) intentions to eat healthy and (2) food choice healthiness in the virtual supermarket, thereby investigating avatar allocation type (Study 1) and visual perspective (Study 2) as moderators. The studies employed 2 (Avatar body size: overweight vs. healthy weight) by 2 (Avatar allocation type: self-assigned vs. experimenter-assigned [Study 1]; Visual perspective: first-person vs. third-person [Studies 2 and 3]) between-subjects designs. None of the studies demonstrated the Proteus effect, and no moderating role of avatar allocation type was found (Study 1). Unexpectedly, controlling an overweight avatar resulted in stronger intentions to eat healthy from a third-person perspective only (Study 2), which led to the hypothesis that the overweight avatar functioned as a fear stimulus. To test this, a health message was added that highlighted obesity as a health risk (Study 3). The addition of this message did not affect intentions to eat healthy and food choice healthiness. The combination of fear appeal and self-perception theory as explanatory frameworks for behavioral responses to avatars opens avenues for new research, such as exploring specific conditions that trigger each effect.

The multi-layer indices decision-making of complex industrial processes is the key to reducing costs and improving production efficiency. With the development of the Industrial Internet, a large number of industrial streaming data and intelligent algorithms have brought opportunities for optimizing plant-wide production indices. However, due to the strong dynamic and coupling of the production process, the intelligent system based only on the optimization algorithm cannot give practical data analysis suggestions and decision results, so a human-computer interactive visual analysis and index decision system are urgently needed. This paper combines multi-layer indices decision-making algorithms with 3D digital twin visual analysis technology to propose an intelligent decision-making system for mineral processing production indices based on 3D digital twin interactive visualization (DTIV). The DTIV system provides users a 3D digital twin modeling view from the production park, workshop, and equipment scenes. It adopts visualization technology that seamlessly integrates 3D and 2D to help users obtain indices decision input information and hidden data features from real-time stream data with different spatiotemporal data characteristics. In addition, the DTIV system also combines a multi-layer indices optimization decision-making algorithms engine and designs a human-machine interaction indices decision interface and indices decision execution visual analysis interface to improve users' production perception and decision-making ability. Through our collaboration with domain experts, carefully designed interviews, and prototype system evaluation in a beneficiation plant, the effectiveness and usability of the system have been proven.

To examine the effect of stereo vision on performance, presence and oculomotor disturbances within a virtual environment (VE), two groups of 23 participants (good stereo acuity/low stereo acuity) were evaluated. Groups were matched in terms of gender, age and VE design factors (the latter were accounted for to ensure a similar VE experience between groups). Participants were immersed in a VE maze for up to I It during which time they interacted with the environment while performing a number of stationary and movement-based tasks. Individuals with low stereo acuity traveled further to complete two tasks in the VE, yet performance time on these tasks was comparable to participants with good stereo acuity. Although participants with impaired stereo vision likely did not fully benefit from a stereoscopic view of the scene, they may have received sufficient depth information from movement-based cues to efficiently accomplish these tasks in a comparable amount of time. Overall performance, based on both the number of tasks completed and the total translational distance moved (based on input device movement) within the VE was not hindered for those with low stereo acuity. In addition, the expected increase in oculomotor disturbances for this group was not evident in this study, and both groups reported comparable amounts of presence from VE exposure. These results suggest that when head tracking is included as part of the VE experience (i.e., motion parallax cues exist), participants with low stereo acuity can be expected to perform comparable to normal sighted individuals, experience a comparable sense of presence, and report no increase in adverse effects when viewing scenes via stereoscopic displays. Thus, motion parallax cues may adequately provide a sense of depth within a VE, and alleviate theorized performance decrements for individuals with low stereo acuity. The results of this study have implications for those designing entertainment simulations or other such applications open to the general public, where people with low stereo acuity may routinely participate. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Augmented reality (AR) devices seek to create compelling visual experiences that merge virtual imagery with the natural world. These devices often rely on wearable near-eye display systems that can optically overlay digital images to the left and right eyes of the user separately. Ideally, the two eyes should be shown images with minimal radiometric differences (e.g., the same overall luminance, contrast, and color in both eyes), but achieving this binocular equality can be challenging in wearable systems with stringent demands on weight and size. Basic vision research has shown that a spectrum of potentially detrimental perceptual effects can be elicited by imagery with radiometric differences between the eyes, but it is not clear whether and how these findings apply to the experience of modern AR devices. In this work, we first develop a testing paradigm for assessing multiple aspects of visual appearance at once, and characterize five key perceptual factors when participants viewed stimuli with interocular contrast differences. In a second experiment, we simulate optical see-through AR imagery using conventional desktop LCD monitors and use the same paradigm to evaluate the multi-faceted perceptual implications when the AR display luminance differs between the two eyes. We also include simulations of monocular AR systems (i.e., systems in which only one eye sees the displayed image). Our results suggest that interocular contrast differences can drive several potentially detrimental perceptual effects in binocular AR systems, such as binocular luster, rivalry, and spurious depth differences. In addition, monocular AR displays tend to have more artifacts than binocular displays with a large contrast difference in the two eyes. A better understanding of the range and likelihood of these perceptual phenomena can help inform design choices that support high-quality user experiences in AR.

Computer-assisted oral and maxillofacial surgery (OMS) has been rapidly evolving since the last decade. State-of-the-art surgical navigation in OMS still suffers from bulky tracking sensors, troublesome image registration procedures, patient movement, loss of depth perception in visual guidance, and low navigation accuracy. We present an augmented reality navigation system with automatic marker-free image registration using 3-D image overlay and stereo tracking for dental surgery. A customized stereo camera is designed to track both the patient and instrument. Image registration is performed by patient tracking and real-time 3-D contour matching, without requiring any fiducial and reference markers. Real-time autostereoscopic 3-D imaging is implemented with the help of a consumer-level graphics processing unit. The resulting 3-D image of the patient's anatomy is overlaid on the surgical site by a half-silvered mirror using image registration and IP-camera registration to guide the surgeon by exposing hidden critical structures. The 3-D image of the surgical instrument is also overlaid over the real one for an augmented display. The 3-D images present both stereo and motion parallax from which depth perception can be obtained. Experiments were performed to evaluate various aspects of the system; the overall image overlay error of the proposed system was 0.71 mm. Z8 5

Advances of industry 4.0 are enabling augmented reality (AR) devices to be deployed across the manufacturing sector to enhance worker engagement and performance. This evolution of AR in the workspace is driving changes in how workers on the factory floor interact with the enterprise. AR is evolving to provide work instructions for assembly and maintenance. Recent demonstrations show the capability to allow for quality inspection to be integrally evaluated as part of the AR workflow. Previous integrations of quality include the ability for manual assessment to be logged into the enterprise as part of completing work instructions; however, this is largely based on the perception of the user to determine if they accurately performed the AR instructions. This study is designed to demonstrate the ability of an enterprise-level AR maintenance experience to go beyond manual inspection by embedding real-time quality assessment into the work instructions. Essentially, the goal is to enable the enterprise to perform a self-assessment of the quality of the work performed by maintenance personnel. Furthermore, the AR instructions enable additional instruction to empower maintenance personnel to correct their work prior to moving on to other tasks. The novelty of this work is focused on deployment on a mobile device with integrated vision inspection using the same device that is being used to deploy the AR work instructions. This work enumerates several essential qualities of mobile quality inspection tools and outlines some of the challenges associated with the development of such a system. Finally, results from testing the system demonstrate that handheld mobile devices can be used to capture inspection images while simultaneously deploying AR work instructions. Analysis of the image correction, timing for vision process of the quality check, and overall performance of the integrated system are presented.

Background:Stroke is one of the most common neurologic injuries worldwide. Over decades, evidence-based neurorehabilitation research and advancements in wireless, wearable sensor design have supported the deployment of technologies to facilitate recovery after stroke. Surface electromyography (sEMG) is one such technology, however, clinical application remains limited. To understand this translational practice gap and improve clinical uptake, it is essential to include stakeholder voices in an analysis of neurorehabilitation practice, the acceptability of current sEMG technologies, and facilitators and barriers to sEMG use in the clinic and the community. The purpose of this study was to foreground the perspectives of stroke survivors to gain a better understanding of their experiences in neurorehabilitation, the technologies they have used during their recovery, and their opinions of lab-designed and commercially-available sEMG systems. Methods:A qualitative, phenomenological study was completed. In-depth, semi-structured interviews were conducted with eight stroke survivors (age range 49-78 years, 6 months to 12 years post-stroke) and two caregivers from a large metropolitan region. A demonstration of four sEMG systems was provided to gather perceptions of sensor design, features and function, and user interface. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim, and coded for analysis using constant comparison until data saturation was reached. Results:Three themes emerged from the data: (1) "Surface EMG has potential horizontal ellipsis .but horizontal ellipsis " highlights the recognition of sEMG as a valuable tool but reveals a lack of understanding and need for clear meaning from the data; (2) "Tracking incremental progress over days or years is important" highlights the persistence of hope and potential benefit of sEMG in detecting small changes that may inform neurorehabilitation practice and policy; and (3) "Neurorehabilitation technology is cumbersome" highlights the tension between optimizing therapy time and trying new technologies, managing cost, logistics and set-up, and desired technology features. Conclusion:Further translation of sEMG technology for neurorehabilitation holds promise for stroke survivors, but sEMG system design and user interface needs refinement. The process of using sEMG technology and products must be simple and provide meaningful insight to recovery. Including stroke survivors directly in translational efforts is essential to improve uptake in clinical environments.

This paper investigates whether the nature of an online environment can prime users to create avatars that emphasize particular characteristics. Participants created an avatar for one of three contrasting settings: blogging, dating or gaming. For the most part, avatars in blogging were created to accurately reflect their owners' physical appearance, lifestyle and preferences. By contrast, participants in the dating and gaming treatments accentuated certain aspects of their avatar to reflect the tone and perceived expectations of the context. For instance, avatars in dating were made to look more attractive while avatars in gaming were made to look more intellectual. Yet, predominantly, these emphasized avatar attributes drew on participants' self-image, and thus avatars were perceived by their owners as highly similar to themselves. The implications of these results are discussed against current frameworks of online identity and behavior. Most importantly, we use our results to extract design recommendations for improving avatar-driven applications. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

While the implementation of digital technology in psychiatry appears promising, there is an urgent need to address the implications of the absence of ethical design in the early development of such technologies. Some authors have noted the gap between technology development and ethical analysis and have called for an upstream examination of the ethical issues raised by digital technologies. In this paper, we address this suggestion, particularly in relation to digital healthcare technologies for patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders. The introduction of digital technologies in psychiatry offers a broad spectrum of diagnostic and treatment options tailored to the health needs and goals of patients' care. These technologies include wearable devices, smartphone applications for high-immersive virtual realities, smart homes, telepsychiatry and messaging systems for patients in rural areas. The availability of these technologies could increase access to mental health services and improve the diagnostics of mental disorders. Additional Instruction In this descriptive review, we systematize ethical concerns about digital technologies for mental health with a particular focus on individuals suffering from schizophrenia. There are many unsolved dilemmas and conflicts of interest in the implementation of these technologies, such as (1) the lack of evidence on efficacy and impact on self-perception; (2) the lack of clear standards for the safety of their daily implementation; (3) unclear roles of technology and a shift in the responsibilities of all parties; (4) no guarantee of data confidentiality; and (5) the lack of a user-centered design that meets the particular needs of patients with schizophrenia. mHealth can improve care in psychiatry and make mental healthcare services more efficient and personalized while destigmatizing mental health disorders. To ensure that these technologies will benefit people with mental health disorders, we need to heighten sensitivity to ethical issues among mental healthcare specialists, health policy makers, software developers, patients themselves and their proxies. Additionally, we need to develop frameworks for furthering sustainable development in the digital technologies industry and for the responsible usage of such technologies for patients with schizophrenia in the clinical setting. We suggest that digital technology in psychiatry, particularly for schizophrenia and other serious mental health disorders, should be integrated into treatment with professional supervision rather than as a self-treatment tool. Z8 0

As a surrogate for human tactile cognition, an artificial tactile perception and cognition system are proposed to produce smooth/soft and rough tactile sensations by its user's tactile feeling; and named this system as "tactile avatar". A piezoelectric tactile sensor is developed to record dynamically various physical information such as pressure, temperature, hardness, sliding velocity, and surface topography. For artificial tactile cognition, the tactile feeling of humans to various tactile materials ranging from smooth/soft to rough are assessed and found variation among participants. Because tactile responses vary among humans, a deep learning structure is designed to allow personalization through training based on individualized histograms of human tactile cognition and recording physical tactile information. The decision error in each avatar system is less than 2% when 42 materials are used to measure the tactile data with 100 trials for each material under 1.2N of contact force with 4cm s(-1) of sliding velocity. As a tactile avatar, the machine categorizes newly experienced materials based on the tactile knowledge obtained from training data. The tactile sensation showed a high correlation with the specific user's tendency. This approach can be applied to electronic devices with tactile emotional exchange capabilities, as well as advanced digital experiences.

Purpose The purpose of this study is to propose a research model based on expectation-confirmation model (ECM) to examine whether interactivity and course quality factors (i.e. course content quality, course design quality) as antecedents to student beliefs can influence students' satisfaction and continuance intention of the cloud-based electronic learning (e-learning) system within the educational institution. Design/methodology/approach Sample data were collected from students enrolled in a comprehensive university in Taiwan. A total of 600 questionnaires were distributed in the campus, and 515 (85.8%) useable questionnaires were analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings Findings showed that students' perceptions of interactivity, course content quality and course design quality positively significantly contributed to their perceived usefulness, confirmation and satisfaction with the cloud-based e-learning system, which in turn directly or indirectly led to their continuance intention of the system. Thus, the results strongly supported the research model based on ECM via positioning key constructs as the drivers with all hypothesized links being significant. Originality/value This study identifies three factors (i.e. interactivity, course content quality, course design quality) as drivers from the learner perspective within the cloud-based e-learning environment, and links these factors to students' satisfaction and continuance intention of the cloud-based e-learning system based on ECM. It is particularly worth mentioning that the three drivers can serve as precursors for recognizing the determinants that are crucial to understand students' satisfaction and continuance intention of the cloud-based e-learning system. Hence, this study may provide new insights in nourishing the cloud-based e-learning continuance literature in the future.

Augmented Reality (AR) is considered to be a promising technology for the guidance of laparoscopic liver surgery. By overlaying pre-operative 3D information of the liver and internal blood vessels on the laparoscopic view, surgeons can better understand the location of critical structures. In an effort to enable AR, several authors have focused on the development of methods to obtain an accurate alignment between the laparoscopic video image and the pre-operative 3D data of the liver, without assessing the benefit that the resulting overlay can provide during surgery. In this paper, we present a study that aims to assess quantitatively and qualitatively the value of an AR overlay in laparoscopic surgery during a simulated surgical task on a phantom setup. We design a study where participants are asked to physically localise pre-operative tumours in a liver phantom using three image guidance conditions - a baseline condition without any image guidance, a condition where the 3D surfaces of the liver are aligned to the video and displayed on a black background, and a condition where video see-through AR is displayed on the laparoscopic video. Using data collected from a cohort of 24 participants which include 12 surgeons, we observe that compared to the baseline, AR decreases the median localisation error of surgeons on non-peripheral targets from 25.8 mm to 9.2 mm. Using subjective feedback, we also identify that AR introduces usability improvements in the surgical task and increases the perceived confidence of the users. Between the two tested displays, the majority of participants preferred to use the AR overlay instead of navigated view of the 3D surfaces on a separate screen. We conclude that AR has the potential to improve performance and decision making in laparoscopic surgery, and that improvements in overlay alignment accuracy and depth perception should be pursued in the future.

Purpose Firms have begun to introduce virtual agents (VAs) in service encounters, both in online and offline environments. Such VAs typically resemble human frontline employees in several ways (e.g. the VAs may have a gender and a name), which indicates the presence of an assumption by VA designers - and by firms that employ them - that VA humanness is a positively charged characteristic. This study aims to address this assumption by examining antecedents to perceived humanness in terms of attribution of agency, emotionality and morality, and the impact of perceived humanness on customer satisfaction. Design/methodology/approach A questionnaire was distributed online to participants who had been interacting with existing VAs, and they were asked to focus on one of them for this study. The questionnaire comprised measures of antecedents to perceived humanness of VAs, perceived humanness per se and customer satisfaction. A structural equation modeling approach was used to assess associations between the variables. Findings Attributions of agency, emotionality and morality to VAs contributed positively to the perceived humanness of the VAs, and perceived humanness was positively associated with customer satisfaction. Research limitations/implications Additional humanness capabilities should be explored in further research. Practical implications Firms using VAs in service encounters should make attempts to maximize perceived VA humanness, and this study shows that it may be beneficial if such attempts comprise signals that VAs have agency, emotionality and morality. Originality/value By examining VAs in terms of a set of fundamental human capabilities, the present study contributes to existing research on human-VA service encounters, which to date has focused on more superficial VA characteristics (such as if the VA has a face and gender).

HoloLens-based mixed-reality surgical navigation system (MR-SNS) technology has made great progress. However, the methodology for evaluating users' perceptions concerning the safety, comfort, and efficiency of MR-SNS is still in its infancy. This study was intended to develop a method to systematically evaluate an existing MR-SNS system during actual clinical applications. This method differs from other existing methods currently used in industry, education, and device maintenance. Based on analytical hierarchy process theory and ergonomics evaluation methods, in this article, we propose a novel multicriteria evaluation model for a HoloLens-based MR-SNS. The model includes factors such as comfort, safety, and effectiveness, and is performed in an actual clinical application. A comprehensive experimental platform and scoring system that can analyze all indicators was built. The validation test showed no statistically significant differences in the accuracy of the 3 different movement patterns (P = .95, P > .05). However, the static pattern showed the best accuracy. In addition, no significant difference (P = .68, P > .05) in accuracy was found under 4 kinds of illuminance. A comparison of the results of this evaluation model and the input from experts who use the HoloLens-based MR-SNS in hospitals, indicated that this model has good precision (100%), recall (80%), and F1-measure (88.89%). The results highlighted the full efficacy of the proposed model in determining whether this system can be used in clinical trials to provide indicators for preliminary ex ante feasibility studies. This article describes the lessons learned from conducting this evaluation study of MR-SNS as part of the design process.

The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is slowly transitioning from traditional single-family public housing to a 'vertical' typology to meet the increasing demand on public housing, solve the problem of the scarcity of land in urban areas, and contribute to achieving its local agenda for sustainable development goals. However, the direct involvement of Emirati residents in the design process of the recently developed limited number of vertical public housing projects has been missing. This research aims to involve a sample of Emirati residents, representing the targeted category for vertical public housing, in the pre-occupancy evaluation of the design of Al Ghurfa, the very recently developed vertical public housing project, focusing mainly on assessing the attainment of social sustainability in this design. The research method included four phases, including initiating a conceptual framework from relevant literature reviews, digitalizing the case study design, developing the conventional and e-Participation interview scenarios and scripts, and selecting a sample of Emirati young citizens who participated in the study. The results of the study successfully highlighted the participating residents' preferences and concerns regarding the design of the investigated pioneering vertical public housing project. The findings revealed the interviewed citizens' perceptions of the investigated social sustainability principles in the vertical housing design pertaining to mixed-use development within and outside the vertical residential building, social integration among neighbors of the building, vertical and horizontal accessibility inside and outside the building, security measures for the residents of the buildings and their privacy, design measures of the high-quality living environments, the user-responsive design of the housing units, and the importance of their involvement in the design. This helped propose a set of recommended design actions for attaining social sustainability in vertical housing design tailored to the specific needs of Emirati residents. The research has also revealed the successful merger between the conventional and advanced e-Participation tools in involving the residents in assessing the professional design of vertical public housing as a new emerging typology that is expected to prevail in the near future.

It is recognised that Visual Impact Assessment (VIA), unlike many other aspects of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA), relies less upon measurement than upon experience and judgement. Hence, it is necessary for a more structured and consistent approach towards VIA, reducing the amount of bias and subjectivity. For proposed developments, there are very few quantitative techniques for the evaluation of visibility, and these existing methods can be highly inaccurate and time consuming. Percentage view changes are one of the few quantitative techniques, and the use of computer technology can reduce the inaccuracy and the time spent evaluating the visibility of either existing or proposed developments. For over 10 years, research work undertaken by the authors at the University of Nottingham has employed Computer Graphics (CG) and Virtual Reality (VR) in civilian and industrial contexts for environmental planning, design visualisation, accident reconstruction, risk analysis, data visualisation and training simulators. This paper describes a method to quantitatively assess the visual impact of proposed developments on the landscape using CG techniques. This method allows the determination of accurate percentage view changes with the use of a computer-generated model of the environment and the application of specialist software that has been developed at the University of Nottingham. The principles are easy to understand and therefore planners, authorisation agencies and members of the public can use and understand the results. A case study is shown to demonstrate the application and the capabilities of the technology. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All fights reserved.

Emergency preparedness is a relevant emerging application of serious games. A general issue in exploiting such approach concerns the breadth of the population that can be reached by serious games. Indeed, serious games need to be actively played and this can restrict their user population, because there are people who have no experience with video games or do not like them or do not have the proper hardware to play them. Moreover, there are organizational contexts in which a non-interactive presentation is preferred because it can be given in a more convenient and less costly way with simple traditional media, i.e., printed materials, slides or videos. This paper deals with the possibility of generating and using a non-interactive version of the experience provided by serious games. First, we propose a serious game. that simulates a mass emergency caused by a terror attack in a train station. To obtain design guidance, we explore psychological models that explain how people are motivated to protect themselves from danger. Then, we generate the non-interactive version of the terror attack simulation and we contrast it with the interactive version. Results of our study show that both versions of the simulation can provide positive outcomes in learning, risk severity perception and self-efficacy, but they differ in how much they affect user's threat appraisal and emotional response. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Purpose of the study: Older adults often have problems finding their way in novel environments such as senior living residences and hospitals. The purpose of this study was to examine the types of self-reported search strategies and cues that older adults use to find their way in a virtual maze. Design and Methods: Healthy, independently living older adults (n = 129) aged 55-96 were tested in a virtual maze task over a period of 3 days in which they had to repeatedly find their way to a specified goal. They were interviewed about their strategies on days 1 and 3. Content analysis was used to identify the strategies and cues described by the participants in order to find their way. Strategies and cues used were compared among groups. Results: The participants reported the use of multiple spatial and non-spatial strategies, and some of the strategies differed among age groups and over time. The oldest age group was less likely to use strategies such as triangulation and distance strategies. All participants used visual landmarks to find their way, but the use of geometric cues (corners) was used less by the older participants. Implications: These findings add to the theoretical understanding of how older adults find their way in complex environments. The understanding of how wayfinding changes with age is essential in order to design more supportive environments.

PurposeMetaverse technology is of interest to researchers and practitioners in tourism and hospitality. The metaverse offers tourists the capacity to enjoy unprecedented tourism experiences. These opportunities may radically change the tourism and hospitality landscape. This study aims to examine how metaverse experiences affect tourists' cognitive processing, satisfaction and loyalty toward metaverse tourism using the stimulus-organism-response paradigm and cognitive experiential self-theory. Design/methodology/approachAn online survey was undertaken to gather information from 329 respondents who were frequent users of different metaverse applications to meet the study's objectives. Data were evaluated through partial least squares structural equation modelling. FindingsThe findings revealed that metaverse experiences, such as immersion, escapism and enjoyment, had a significant positive impact on metaverse organismic experience. Additionally, metaverse cognitive processing positively influenced metaverse tourist responses, including satisfaction and loyalty, with tourist involvement acting as a moderator. Originality/valueThis study provides guidelines for metaverse developers and travel industry professionals to encourage visitor satisfaction and loyalty to metaverse tourism.

Purpose - Intelligent customer service has started replacing human employees in providing services to customers in numerous industries. Based on the expectancy disconfirmation theory, this study explores how different types of anthropomorphic avatar images of the intelligent customer service would affect consumer responses such as the willingness to interact, in the context of a service failure. The underlying mechanism and boundary conditions are also examined.Design/methodology/approach - Two experimental studies were conducted to investigate the effect of the anthropomorphic image of intelligent customer service on consumers' willingness to interact and the potential role of consumer expectation and disappointment, following a service failure (Study 1). The moderating effect of anthropomorphic type was also explored (Study 2).Findings - In the context of a customer service failure, an anthropomorphized intelligent customer service avatar that appeared competent (vs. warm) induced higher customer disappointment. However, if the anthropomorphic avatar had a cartoon-like appearance, the effect of avatar image perception (competent vs. warm) on consumers' willingness to interact diminishes.Originality/value - This research enriches and expands the literature on interactive marketing and artificial intelligence and provides practical guidance for companies to design or choose avatar images for intelligent customer service.

Background/aimsDiagnosis of skin conditions is dependent on the assessment of skin surface properties that are represented by more tactile properties such as stiffness, roughness, and friction than visual information. Due to this reason, adding tactile feedback to existing vision based diagnosis systems can help dermatologists diagnose skin diseases or disorders more accurately. The goal of our research was therefore to develop a tactile rendering system for skin examinations by dynamic touch. MethodsOur development consists of two stages: converting a single image to a 3D haptic surface and rendering the generated haptic surface in real-time. Converting to 3D surfaces from 2D single images was implemented with concerning human perception data collected by a psychophysical experiment that measured human visual and haptic sensibility to 3D skin surface changes. For the second stage, we utilized real skin biomechanical properties found by prior studies. Our tactile rendering system is a standalone system that can be used with any single cameras and haptic feedback devices. ResultsWe evaluated the performance of our system by conducting an identification experiment with three different skin images with five subjects. The participants had to identify one of the three skin surfaces by using a haptic device (Falcon) only. No visual cue was provided for the experiment. The results indicate that our system provides sufficient performance to render discernable tactile rendering with different skin surfaces. ConclusionOur system uses only a single skin image and automatically generates a 3D haptic surface based on human haptic perception. Realistic skin interactions can be provided in real-time for the purpose of skin diagnosis, simulations, or training. Our system can also be used for other applications like virtual reality and cosmetic applications. Z8 0

Problematization Methodology is made of an active methodology that makes it possible to improve students' capacity regarding their role as agents of participation and social transformation in the perception of real problems and in the search for original and creative solutions. The threefold goal 90-90-90 came to the world facing the HIV epidemic, proposing that, among the people living with HIV, 90% have diagnosis, 90% receive antiretroviral treatment, and 90% will have viral suppression by 2020. The expectation is to expand the diagnosis; however, it is necessary to reflect on the possibility of permanent health education about the subject. Objective: The aim of this study is to have the opportunity of transforming the user's practice of the first deal with the Rapid Test for HIV reactive in the Primary Attendance through Distance Learning, applying the Problematization Methodology. This is one of the Active Methodologies where the co-relation theory-practice permeates the whole process, in a dynamic of students' action-reflection-action, having, as a result, a degree of transforming action into the reality observed by the students. Iribarry refers to solidarity and sharing knowledge and concern of professionals to contribute with their knowledge aimed at solving a problem. The course is designed as an interactive and educational optional module offered in the Family Health Specialization at UNA-SUS/UFCSPA. This paper is part of the Master Degree research from the Postgraduate Program in Health Teaching at UFCSPA, where an education module has been developed with UNA-SUS/UFCSPA team. It is available on: https://ares.unasus.gov.br/acervo/handle/ARES/3474. The teaching methodology used was the Problematization Methodology and its innovation has been its implementation in the context of virtual education in healthcare. PM has a social nature for transforming praxis. The module design with an alternative use of PM is shown as a result. PM has, as its grounds, an arc of action from the reality experienced by students, followed by their observation, besides a list of problem situations, the theorizing of contents to be addressed in handling the situation, the organization of possible solutions to such problem situations, and, finally, an action plan to interfere with the initial proposed reality, so that it could be modified. The implementation of the last stage consisted of drawing up a flowchart proposal based on the management of users with an initial positive result for HIV virus within the reality of their health units, preferably aligned with the work team in the initial management of those patients. The objective was to enable professionals to organize the decision-making planning in order to modify the care line conduct. The organization of cooperation among peers to perform a collective proposal has reduced the need for a leader. At this time, reality is transformed and the arc stages can be applied again to expand its improvement. The reality of the students' professional practice in the course could be presented in the forum, which has shown that, despite the practice of the rapid test, there has not been previous thought about the time of the diagnosis revelation when a result was reagent. Thus, PM may be an alternative to work issues that are part of students' reality and that have as a goal behavioral improvement, not only transposition of knowledge. This would, therefore, narrow down the network of interactions between subject and object, and between theory and practice. Pedagogy, Informatics and Health should be partners, and interdisciplinary organization projects can promote the organization of the work process.

Background Patients with cerebellar malformations exhibit not only movement problems, but also important deficits in social cognition. Thus, rehabilitation approaches should not only involve the recovery of motor function but also of higher-order abilities such as processing of social stimuli. In keeping with the general role of the cerebellum in anticipating and predicting events, we used a VR-based rehabilitation system to implement a social cognition intensive training specifically tailored to improve predictive abilities in social scenarios (VR-Spirit). Methods/design The study is an interventional randomised controlled trial that aims to recruit 42 children, adolescents and young adults with congenital cerebellar malformations, randomly allocated to the experimental group or the active control group. The experimental group is administered the VR-Spirit, requiring the participants to compete with different avatars in the reaching of recreational equipment and implicitly prompting them to form expectations about their playing preference. The active control group participates in a VR-training with standard games currently adopted for motor rehabilitation. Both trainings are composed by eight 45-min sessions and are administered in the GRAIL VR laboratory (Motekforce Link, Netherlands), an integrated platform that allows patients to move in natural and attractive VR environments. An evaluation session in VR with the same paradigm used in the VR-Spirit but implemented in a different scenario is administered at the beginning (T0) of the two trainings (T1) and at the end (T2). Moreover, a battery of neurocognitive tests spanning different domains is administered to all participants at T0, T2 and in a follow-up session after 2 months from the end of the two trainings (T3). Discussion This study offers a novel approach for rehabilitation based on specific neural mechanisms of the cerebellum. We aim to investigate the feasibility and efficacy of a new, intensive, social cognition training in a sample of Italian patients aged 7-25 years with congenital cerebellar malformations. We expect that VR-Spirit could enhance social prediction ability and indirectly improve cognitive performance in diverse domains. Moreover, through the comparison with a VR-active control training we aim to verify the specificity of VR-Spirit in improving social perception skills.

The negative impacts of urban traffic growth are well known, e.g.,congestion, increased air pollution, and more traffic noise. Humans can readily see traffic congestion, and can hear traffic noise, but inevitably they are much less aware of odorless, invisible, silent air pollution. Therefore, quite naturally people, whether the general public or transport professionals, struggle to visualize air pollution from traffic, and will find it particularly difficult to visualize changes in air pollution levels resulting from changes in traffic conditions because of the implementation of various urban transport schemes. Hence, there is always a risk of the air quality impacts of potential urban transport schemes being underappreciated. Therefore, this paper contributes to the knowledge by devising a new three-dimensional (3D) visualization approach for modeled air quality before and after the implementation of potential urban transport schemes. Using the Dunkirk area of the City of Nottingham in the United Kingdom as a case study, research has been undertaken to integrate an air pollution dispersion model for the pollutant with a 3D digital city model. The modeled concentrations, before and after the implementation of an urban transport scheme, were represented in the 3D city model at various heights above the ground: first, as 3D point shapes; second, as 3D planar surfaces; and finally, as 3D volumetric clouds. The 3D volumetric clouds approach used the analogy of people's perceptions of gray clouds in the sky as representing undesirable weather, and hence provided an intuitive 3D visualization of all the modeled concentrations, at and above the ground surface, in a single 3D virtual scene. Benefits have been identified in enhancing the level of understanding of the pollution dispersion using this new approach to visualization. This has allowed the visualization process to be used in the development of future traffic scenarios that could be used to alter the design of a proposed transport scheme to increase its air quality benefits. This 3D visualization approach was found to be applicable to other transport schemes in different parts of the City of Nottingham. (C) 2013 American Society of Civil Engineers.

This paper describes the design and evaluation of an AR alphabet book, an Augmented Reality based book for teaching the alphabet to preschool children. Used together with camera and computer, children could view the superimposed virtual alphabet in a fun and interactive manner using the pattern markers as an interaction tool. Generally, teaching young children could be difficult this is due to the focus of young children is different from elderly since they could only focus on something for short period of time. Introducing the fun and interactive learning could grab the attention therefore enhance teaching and learning for young learner. Fun-learning emphasized interactive learning through play, songs; dance, drama and the use of information and communication technology (ICT). Researches showed that fun learning also increase the ability to memorize and understanding of the user. Flashcard is one of the learning approaches to teach children the alphabet. The tangible manner of flashcard introduce the interaction of learning therefore it could create the joyful learning. However, the potential of flash-card could be further enhance through the use of AR technology. Therefore, introducing the use of AR could encompass fun learning since AR offer rich media learning. Besides displaying each alphabet upon presentation of its corresponding pattern marker, children have the options to see 3D models of objects that begin with each alphabet character. Additional book features includes pattern markers for children to view animation of how each letter is drawn and jigsaw puzzle game for each letter to test children understanding. An informal study was conducted among 15 preschool children aged between 5-6 years old to examine user perception of the book. The preliminary results indicate the children reacted positively towards the books; most reported they like and enjoy using the AR book. Observation of the children behaviors during study corroborates this finding. Most students requested to use the AR book repeatedly. These results suggest the potential of AR book as a tool to create fun learning environment especially for preschool children. Furthermore, the brief interview with the teacher of the preschool also suggested that the system seem to grab the attention of the children. (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

Objectives:We assessed if spatial hearing training improves sound localization in bilateral cochlear implant (BCI) users and whether its benefits can generalize to untrained sound localization tasks. Design:In 20 BCI users, we assessed the effects of two training procedures (spatial versus nonspatial control training) on two different tasks performed before and after training (head-pointing to sound and audiovisual attention orienting). In the spatial training, participants identified sound position by reaching toward the sound sources with their hand. In the nonspatial training, comparable reaching movements served to identify sound amplitude modulations. A crossover randomized design allowed comparison of training procedures within the same participants. Spontaneous head movements while listening to the sounds were allowed and tracked to correlate them with localization performance. Results:During spatial training, BCI users reduced their sound localization errors in azimuth and adapted their spontaneous head movements as a function of sound eccentricity. These effects generalized to the head-pointing sound localization task, as revealed by greater reduction of sound localization error in azimuth and more accurate first head-orienting response, as compared to the control nonspatial training. BCI users benefited from auditory spatial cues for orienting visual attention, but the spatial training did not enhance this multisensory attention ability. Conclusions:Sound localization in BCI users improves with spatial reaching-to-sound training, with benefits to a nontrained sound localization task. These findings pave the way to novel rehabilitation procedures in clinical contexts. Z8 1

In terms of road safety, as well demonstrated in previous studies, the combination of concentrated flows in one specific area might induce more critical maneuvers. In this contest, one of the crucial points for road safety are weaving lanes where different flow can perform different maneuver merging and diverging, producing some conflict points. Bearing in mind this facet, this particular elements, have to be designed with a specific geometry, in order to ensure both maneuver, deceleration for exit and acceleration for entrance in the main flow. The main goal of this paper is the analyze the exchange maneuver of vehicles by means of a real time driving simulator, which allows to evaluate the performance of car users when approaching the exchange of lanes under the same boundary conditions. More specifically, the present paper deals with the extension of previously performed research on this type of element. Therefore, same indicators, same analysis technique and virtual reality scenarios were adopted, in order to establish a comparison between two different conditions of approach to the weaving lane: the first with same speed between the main and the secondary flow, the second one, with a significant speed difference between the flows. The analysis of the maneuvers has been addressed at first under a geometrical point of view and then estimating the related risk parameters in line with the same indicators presented in the previous research (deceleration and risk area evaluated as longitudinal ant transversal distance between vehicles). The main results highlight that, under a geometrical point of view, in different speed condition between the two flows, car users tend to reduce the length of the maneuver, performing the weaving earlier and then occupying a reduced length of the lane in comparison at same speed condition. Under the point of view of risk analysis, results are more significant in terms of traffic flow management rather than in terms of lengths of the lanes. In case of flows with different speed, car users tend to use brakes more often, probably because they are calibrating the speed of the vehicle approaching the weaving lane.

As wireless technology continues its rapid evolution, the sixth-generation (6G) networks are capable of offering exceptionally high data transmission rates as well as low latency, which is promisingly able to meet the high-demand needs for digital twins (DTs). Quality-of-experience (QoE) in this situation, which refers to the users' overall satisfaction and perception of the provided DT service in 6G networks, is significant to optimize the service and help improve the users' experience. Despite progress in developing theories and systems for digital twin transmission under 6G networks, the assessment of QoE for users falls behind. To address this gap, our paper introduces the first QoE evaluation database for human digital twins (HDTs) in 6G network environments, aiming to systematically analyze and quantify the related quality factors. We utilize a mmWave network model for channel capacity simulation and employ high-quality digital humans as source models, which are further animated, encoded, and distorted for final QoE evaluation. Subjective quality ratings are collected from a well-controlled subjective experiment for the 400 generated HDT sequences. Additionally, we propose a novel QoE evaluation metric that considers both quality-of-service (QoS) and content-quality features. Experimental results indicate that our model outperforms existing state-of-the-art QoE evaluation models and other competitive quality assessment models, thus making significant contributions to the domain of 6G network applications for HDTs.

The working hypothesis in this project is that gaze interactions play a central role in structuring the joint control and guidance strategy of the human operator performing spatial tasks. Perceptual guidance and control is the idea that the visual and motor systems form a unified perceptuo-motor system where necessary information is naturally extracted by the visual system. As a consequence, the response of this system is constrained by the visual and motor mechanisms and these effects should manifest in the behavioral data. Modeling the perceptual processes of the human operator provides the foundation necessary for a systems-based approach to the design of control and display systems used by remotely operated vehicles. This paper investigates this hypothesis using flight tasks conducted with remotely controlled miniature rotorcraft, taking place in indoor settings that provide rich environments to investigate the key processes supporting spatial interactions. This work also applies to spatial control tasks in a range of application domains that include tele-operation, gaming, and virtual reality. The human-in-the-loop system combines the dynamics of the vehicle, environment, and human perception-action with the response of the overall system emerging from the interplay of perception and action. The main questions to be answered in this work are as follows: (i) what is the general control and guidance strategy of the human operator, and (ii) how is information about the vehicle and environment extracted visually by the operator. The general approach uses gaze as the primary sensory mechanism by decoding the gaze patterns of the pilot to provide information for estimation, control, and guidance. This work differs from existing research by taking what have largely been conceptual ideas on action-perception and structuring them to be implemented for a real-world problem. The paper proposes a system model that captures the human pilot's perception-action loop; the loop that delineates the main components of the pilot's perceptuo-motor system, including estimation of the vehicle state and task elements based on operator gaze patterns, trajectory planning, and tracking control. The identified human visuo-motor model is then exploited to demonstrate how the perceptual and control functions system can be augmented to reduce the operator workload.

The increasing use of video streaming services that followed the Covid-19 pandemic has more than ever driven a rising interest among various stakeholders in service provisioning chain to understand factors influencing quality of experience (QoE). Many research activities have so far addressed different influence factors in order to understand and improve QoE when using video streaming service. However, we have recognized the requirement to address QoE as multidimensional concept, and show the relationship between QoE, perceptual dimensions, and influence factors. In this paper, we provide the multidimensional modelling and analysis of QoE for video streaming. Result analysis has shown that QoE for video streaming can be modelled by using perception of quality of video and perception of ease of use of application as predictors. The analysis of influence of individual system (i.e., resolution, coding tree unit (CTU), and constant rate factor (CRF)), context (i.e., location, lighting, and video type), and human (i.e., gender, education level, and prior experience) factors and their interactions on QoE perceptual dimensions (i.e., perception of quality and perception of ease of use) show statistically significant impacts, which means that alternations of these factors can enhance perceptual dimensions and consequently QoE for video streaming which is a final goal.

The interactive visual simulation is the integration of real-time computer graphics with multimodalities, such as acoustic display and force feedback, to create a realistic simulation scenario to the user. This paper presents a method to design an interactive visual simulation on a cluster of desktop computers for the mobile crane training. This mobile crane training simulation is a project sponsored by Employment and Vocational Training Administration, Council of Labor Affair, Executive Yuan, Taiwan, to build a low-cost yet effective vehicle for training and licensing. To achieve this goal, a set of locally networked PCs is employed to form a parallel computing environment for the mobile crane simulation. The most important issue of developing a high-fidelity interactive visual simulator is its integration system for communication and monitoring among functional modules. This paper presents a peer-to-peer architecture on a cluster of PCs to develop the required integration system for the mobile crane simulator. In addition, the developed integration system uses the push-and-pull, model to seamlessly communicate the messages among distributed functional modules. This push-and-pull model effectively achieves the parallelism among the distributed functional modules of a mobile crane simulator. With the push-and-pull model on the peer-to-peer architecture, we can easily achieve the modularity and reusability of the functional modules of the simulating system. The presented push-and-pull model satisfies four essential attributes for the parallel computing, which are concurrency, scalability, locality and modularity. Our experience also successfully verifies the effectiveness of the presented simulator with the system response rate of 16 times per second which is larger than human acceptable perception rate as suggested by the human factors studies. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

Recently, many studies have shown that during the transition period of the coexistence of autonomous vehicles (AVs)/connected automated vehicles (CAVs) and human-driven vehicles (HDVs), a dedicated lane (DL) for AVs/ CAVs can improve traffic throughput and lower collision risk, which has become a hot topic in the field of intelligent transportation systems (ITS). This study presents an integrated simulation platform for DL optimi-zation from cyber-physical-system (CPS) perspective. The developed simulation platform can be used to quali-tatively and quantitatively evaluate the design parameters, operation modes, contingency plan, etc. of DL in a "What You See Is What You Get (Wysiwyg)" style. First, we introduce the architecture and features of the proposed platform, which comprises of SUMO, OMNeT++, and Unity3D. We implemented all experimental scripts for DL optimization in SUMO, including the configuration of the DLs, car-following models, lane-changing models, vehicle departure models, origin-destination demands, and 2D visualization of traffic flow simulation. We used OMNeT++ for vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communication. Unity3D is a 3D visualization platform for simulations synchronized with SUMO. Connected with the driving simulator and paired with a virtual reality (VR) helmet, Unity3D can offer a high-fidelity immersive environment for all types of users. We developed a specific communication protocol to achieve data sharing and synchronization of all components of the proposed simulation platform. Second, this paper depicts the functions of the proposed simulation platform in detail, including the modeling of road networks, vehicles, traffic flow, optimal design, and evaluation indicators of DL. Finally, by using the developed simulation platform, we demonstrated and analyzed three cases: (1) without DL vs with DL, (2) inner lane vs outer lane, and (3) without V2I vs with V2I. The experimental results confirm the feasibility of the developed simulation platform, and yield some interesting findings, such as (1) market penetration rates (MPRs) are an important factor in deciding whether to deploy DLs, (2) the number of lane changes when the vehicle enters/leaves the designated lane is the key criterion for determining the placement of the DLs, and (3) the cooperative vehicle-infrastructure system can offer AVs/CAVs with better over-the-horizon perception capabilities, helping to improve the smoothness of traffic flow in the case of abnormal events. The developed simulation platform is expected to offer a new tool for optimal design and evaluation of DLs for AVs/CAvs.

An important need while using unmanned vehicles is the ability for the remote operator or observer to easily and accurately perceive the operating environment. A classic problem in providing a complete representation of the remote work area is sensory overload or excessive complexity in the human-machine interface. In addition, remote operations often benefit from depth perception capability while viewing or manipulating objects. Thus, there is an on going effort within the remote and teleoperated robotic field to develop better human-machine interfaces. The Department of Energy's Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) has been researching methods to simplify the human-machine interface using atypical operator techniques. Initial telepresence research conducted at the INEEL developed and implemented a concept called the VirtualwindoW. This system minimized the complexity of remote stereo viewing controls and provided the operator the "feel" of viewing the environment, including depth perception, in a natural setting. The VirtualwindoW has shown that the human-machine interface can be simplified while increasing operator performance. This paper deals with the continuing research and development of the VirtualwindoW to provide a reconfigurable, modular system that easily utilizes commercially available off the shelf components. This adaptability is well suited to several aspects of unmanned vehicle applications, most notably environmental perception and vehicle control.

Gamification is becoming more relevant, especially after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and quarantine. The purpose of our paper is to analyse the changes which occurred in the effects of gamification on e-learning as a result of the COVID-19 quarantine emergence in the spring of 2020. This paper describes the scientific contributions about the game elements most frequently implemented and their effects on those that use e-learning platforms, as well as the factors that contribute to the development of effective gamification in e-learning before and during the pandemic. Drawing upon the PRISMA framework, a number of 103 articles were identified in two databases: the Web of Science and Scopus. This paper discusses the previous works associated with the corpus of knowledge built around gamification in the past decade. This research shows that before the COVID-19 pandemic, even though many papers were written on gamification in education prior to 2019, there is a trend regarding the multiple mentions of using storylines, challenges, or badges in order to create and maintain competition among users, which in turn may influence and increase the level of social interactions and the coalescence of communities.

Recently, the concept of olfaction-enhanced multimedia applications has gained traction as a step toward further enhancing user quality of experience. The next generation of rich media services will be immersive and multisensory, with olfaction playing a key role. This survey reviews current olfactory-related research from a number of perspectives. It introduces and explains relevant olfactory psychophysical terminology, knowledge of which is necessary for working with olfaction as a media component. In addition, it reviews and highlights the use of, and potential for, olfaction across a number of application domains, namely health, tourism, education, and training. A taxonomy of research and development of olfactory displays is provided in terms of display type, scent generation mechanism, application area, and strengths/weaknesses. State of the art research works involving olfaction are discussed and associated research challenges are proposed. Z8 0

In the realm of virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR) and teleoperation applications, haptic feedback plays a role in enhancing task performance. One of the main goals of this study is to simplify haptic device hardware while improving its capacity to provide various stimuli at different intensities. In response to these challenges, this research introduces the Pneumatic Unit Cell (PUC), a soft pneumatically driven device-a hollow silicone cylinder with the ability to provide both static-pressure and vibrotactile feedback. Furthermore, the Pneumatic Unit Cell's design simplicity has the potential for scalability, modularity, and the flexibility to mount the device on any part of the human body. The focus of the current paper is to study PUCs as actuators and lay the foundation for future perceptual studies. The characterization studies encompass the fabrication and verification of the fabrication accuracy through dimensional measurements, characterizing PUCs under static-pressure conditions (measuring the free deflection and blocking force) and frequency conditions (measuring the free deflection). In the static-pressure conditions, we applied pressures ranging from 0 to 40 kPa to measure the free deflection and from 0 to 30 kPa to measure the blocking force. In the frequency conditions, we applied pressures of 10, 20, and 30 kPa with inflation/deflation rates varying between 0.5 Hz and 100 Hz. The measurements of free deflection under static-pressure conditions revealed that 0.9 mm and 1.2 mm PUCs exhibit a linear increase in free deflection with an increase in inflation pressure. The results of free-deflection measurements under the frequency conditions indicate a direct relationship between the free-deflection magnitude and applied pressure. The results also demonstrate an inverse relationship to the frequency of inflation/deflation. The characterization results demonstrate a broad range of free deflection observed under both static-pressure and frequency conditions, encouraging the potential application of Pneumatic Unit Cell actuators as haptic devices.

The vision of Web 3.0 is to promote decentralized, intelligent, and autonomous Internet by self- learning and self-adaption of user demands. Such Internet evolution is enabled by ubiquitous and low-latency communication and powerful computing, imposing significant challenges on the Web 3.0 architecture and its network orchestration. The successful implementation of Web 3.0 relies on dynamic perception and intelligent decision-making, which is difficult to conceive owing to the heterogeneity and dynamics of networks. Digital twins, as an emerging technology, can map the real-time network status and make optimal decisions to enable intelligent low- latency communications. This article introduces a digital twin architecture to achieve networking virtualization and digitalization for Web 3.0. Based on the architecture, the digital twin-empowered low-latency communication scheme is proposed by disseminating tasks to the resource- sufficient infrastructure, while considering the communication cost of deploying digital twins. Illustrated results demonstrate the superiority of digital twins for low-latency communications in Web 3.0.

Binocular telepresence systems afford the opportunity of increasing the inter-camera distance (ICD) beyond the normal interocular distance (IOD) which magnifies the magnitude of the disparity information. This improves performance in nulling and matching tasks(1). Here we examine whether telepresent observers can learn to use enhanced disparities to accurately perform tasks requiring the recovery of Euclidean geometry (a shape task). The design comprised three phases: pre-adaptation (ICD = 6.5 cm), adaptation (ICD = 3.25 or 13 cm) and post- adaptation (ICD = 6.5 cm). Telepresent observers were required to adjust the magnitude of a depth interval (specified by binocular disparity) so that it matched a specified 2D interval specified by two lights (set between 5 and 15 cm) in an otherwise blacked-out scene. In the adaptation phase, the ICD/IOD ratio was changed to 0.5 or 2 and observers adjusted the depth interval repeatedly until a performance criterion was reached. Two forms of feedback were given in the adaptation phase: direct, where another light was shown at the correct disparity; and symbolic, where a signed number indicated the magnitude and direction of the error. Observers were clearly affected by ICD/IOD changes but learned the new ratio rapidly under both feedback conditions.

PurposeOur study aimed to investigate the factors associated with the acceptance of virtual reality (VR) games among older adults living in LTC, with a particular emphasis on identifying social and individual factors that have been overlooked in existing technology acceptance models.Materials and methodsWe conducted VR gaming sessions, followed by a composite questionnaire to explore the factors associated with the acceptance of VR games among residents of LTC with a focus on technology acceptance models (TAM) and social factors derived from Selective Optimization with Compensation (SOC) theory and Socioemotional Selectivity Theory (SST).ResultsWe studied 20 older adults aged 65 and older. Participants were moderately sedentary, with the majority of them having prior gaming experience. Participants with prior gaming experience had higher mean scores in most SOC theory and SST subscales, except for elective selection. Participants perceived the technology as useful and easy to use, with no heightened gaming-related anxiety. Significant correlations were found between perceived ease of use and selection strategies, and between attitudes towards gaming and elective selection strategies. No significant score differences were observed between male and female participants.ConclusionsThe positive correlation between VR acceptance and using SOC strategies suggests a positive response to straightforward experiences. Our study highlights VR exergaming's potential benefits for encouraging LTC residents' engagement in valued activities and pursuing goals. Moreover, social theories of aging can inform technology acceptance and guide the design and marketing of VR exergames to better suit older adults' needs and preferences in LTC.IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONThe findings of this study have important implications for rehabilitation programs aimed at enhancing physical activity (PA) and engagement among older adults living in long-term care (LTC) facilities. The use of virtual reality (VR) games can be an important tool to promote PA and improve the overall well-being of LTC residents. Based on the results, the following implications can be drawn:Integrating VR exergaming in rehabilitation:The positive perception of VR technology's usefulness and ease of use among older adults in LTC suggests that VR exergaming can be effectively integrated into rehabilitation programs. Healthcare professionals and rehabilitation specialists in LTC facilities can consider incorporating VR-based exercise routines and gaming sessions to motivate and engage residents in physical activities. By doing so, they can create enjoyable and interactive rehabilitation experiences that may lead to improved adherence to exercise regimens.Addressing social factors for VR acceptance:Our study highlights the significance of social factors derived from theories of aging, such as Selective Optimization with Compensation (SOC) and Socioemotional Selectivity Theory (SST), in influencing VR acceptance among LTC residents. Rehabilitation programs should take into account these social aspects and create a supportive and encouraging environment for older adults to engage with VR exergames. Encouraging social interactions and providing opportunities for residents to share their experiences with VR gaming may enhance acceptance and overall engagement.Tailoring VR exergames for older adults:The correlation between VR acceptance and the use of SOC strategies indicates that customized experiences may be well-received by LTC residents. Game developers and rehabilitation specialists should consider designing VR exergames that align with the specific preferences and needs of older adults. This could involve providing choices and options for users to optimize their gaming experiences based on their individual abilities and interests.Recognizing gaming experience:Our study highlights that prior gaming experience positively influenced participants' attitudes towards VR gaming. Rehabilitation professionals should acknowledge and leverage this prior experience when introducing VR exergaming to older adults in LTC. By incorporating elements familiar to older adults or providing guidance for those new to gaming, rehabilitation programs can foster a more seamless and enjoyable transition to VR exergames.Promoting goal pursuit and valued activities:Our study suggests that VR exergaming has the potential to encourage LTC residents' engagement in valued activities and goal pursuit. Rehabilitation programs can utilize VR exergaming as a means to help residents achieve specific rehabilitation goals and engage in activities that are meaningful to them. This approach can contribute to a sense of purpose and satisfaction in the rehabilitation process.Overall, the integration of VR exergaming in rehabilitation for older adults in LTC facilities has promising implications for improving physical activity levels, enhancing engagement, and addressing the holistic well-being of residents. By considering the social factors influencing VR acceptance and tailoring experiences to individual preferences, rehabilitation professionals can optimize the potential benefits of VR technology in LTC settings.

OBJECTIVE: We developed an augmented reality system that enables intraoperative image guidance by using 3-dimensional (3D) graphics overlaid on a video stream. We call this system DEX-Ray and report on its development and the initial intraoperative experience in 12 cases. METHODS: DEX-Ray consists of a tracked handheld probe that integrates a lipstick-size video camera. The camera looks over the probe's tip into the surgical field. The camera's video stream is augmented with coregistered, multimodality 3D graphics and landmarks obtained during neurosurgical planning with 3D workstations. The handheld probe functions as a navigation device to view and point and as an interaction device to adjust the 3D graphics. We tested the system's accuracy in the laboratory and evaluated it intraoperatively with a series of tumor and vascular cases. RESULTS: DEX-Ray provided accurate and real-time video-based augmented reality display. The system could be seamlessly integrated into the surgical workflow. The see-through effect revealing 3D information below the surgically exposed surface proved to be of significant value, especially during the macroscopic phase of an operation, providing easily understandable structural navigational information. Navigation in deep and narrow surgical corridors was limited by the camera resolution and light sensitivity. CONCLUSION: The system was perceived as an improved navigational experience because the augmented see-through effect allowed direct understanding of the surgical anatomy beyond the visible surface and direct guidance toward surgical targets.

Remote sports coaching connects athletes to interactive training sessions, despite busy schedules and/or lack of access to local trainers. In current formats, athletes record videos of themselves, which they send to coaches for feedback or use in self-coaching. Additionally, some coaches turn to video conferencing platforms such as FaceTime or Zoom for live coaching. A significant challenge with these methods of remote sports coaching is the absence of spatial analysis capabilities, which hinders in-depth assessment of athletic performance. This paper introduces Augmented Coach, an immersive and interactive sports coaching system. Augmented Coach utilizes volumetric data to reconstruct the 3D representations of the athletes. As a result, coaches can not only view the resulting point cloud videos of the athletes performing athletic movements, but also employ the system's spatial annotation and visualization tools to gain insights into movement patterns and communicate with remote athletes. Unlike existing tools tailored to specific sports, Augmented Coach explores spatial kinesthetic values shared across various sports through a pilot study and designs adaptable features applicable to diverse sports coaching scenarios. To assess the system's usability, we conducted a user study involving ten users, spanning certified coaches and experienced athletes from various sports, illustrating how they can utilize the system's features to enhance coaching in their respective disciplines.

Individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD) have specific difficulties in cognitive social-emotional capability, which affect numerous aspects of social competence. This study evaluated the learning effects of using 3D-emotion system intervention program for individuals with IDD in learning socially based-emotions capability in social contexts. The 3D-emotion system involves three stages with 24 questions with designed different social events. The experimental study was to evaluate using a single subject design on three participants with IDD for identifying the effects of 3D-emotion system intervention program: and the collected data of using this system and informal interview with the participants' were involved. The-results showed that three participants had significant positive effects on using of the 3D-emotion system intervention program, and in terms of follow-up learning have been discussed in this paper. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

We motivate an approach to evaluating the utility of life-like interface agents that is based on human eye movements rather than questionnaires. An eye tracker is employed to obtain quantitative evidence of a user's focus of attention without distracting from the primary task. The salient feature of our evaluation strategy is that it allows us to measure important properties of a user's interaction experience on a moment-by-moment basis in addition to a cumulative (spatial) analysis of the user's areas of interest. We describe a pilot study in which we compare attending behavior of subjects watching the presentation of a computer-generated apartment layout and visualization augmented by three types of media: an animated agent, a text box, and speech only. The investigation of eye movements revealed that deictic gestures performed by the agent are more effective in directing the attentional focus of subjects to relevant interface objects than the media used in the two control conditions, at a slight cost of distracting the user from visual inspection of the object of reference. The results also demonstrate that the presence of an interface agent seemingly triggers natural and social interaction protocols of human users. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Objective: To compare kinematics of 3-dimensional pointing movements performed in a virtual environment (VE) displayed through a head-mounted display with those made in a physical environment. Design: Observational study of movement in poststroke and healthy subjects. Setting: Motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Adults (n=15; 4 women; 59 +/- 15.4y) with chronic poststroke hemiparesis were recruited. Participants had moderate upper-limb impairment with Chedoke-McMaster Arm Scores ranging from 3 to 6 out of 7. Twelve healthy subjects (6 women; 53.3 +/- 17.1y) were recruited from the community. Interventions: Not applicable. Main Outcome Measures: Arm and trunk kinematics were recorded in similar virtual and physical environments with an Optotrak System (6 markers; 100Hz; 5s). Subjects pointed as quickly and as accurately as possible to 6 targets (12 trials/target in a randomized sequence) placed in arm workspace areas requiring different ann movement patterns and levels of difficulty. Movements were analyzed in terms of performance outcome measures (endpoint precision, trajectory, peak velocity) and ann and trunk movement patterns (elbow and shoulder ranges of motion, elbow/shoulder coordination, trunk displacement, rotation). Results: For healthy subjects, precision and trajectory straightness were higher in VE when pointing to contralateral targets, and movements were slower for all targets in VE. Stroke participants made less accurate and more curved movements in VE and used less trunk displacement. Elbow/shoulder coordination differed when pointing to the lower ipsilateral target. There were no group-by-environment interactions. Conclusions: Movements in both environments were sufficiently similar to consider VE a valid environment for clinical interventions and motor control studies.

Objectives:Talker sex and spatial cues can facilitate segregation of competing speech. However, the spectrotemporal degradation associated with cochlear implants (CIs) can limit the benefit of talker sex and spatial cues. Acoustic hearing in the nonimplanted ear can improve access to talker sex cues in CI users. However, it's unclear whether the CI can improve segregation of competing speech when maskers are symmetrically placed around the target (i.e., when spatial cues are available), compared with acoustic hearing alone. The aim of this study was to investigate whether a CI can improve segregation of competing speech by individuals with unilateral hearing loss. Design:Speech recognition thresholds (SRTs) for competing speech were measured in 16 normal-hearing (NH) adults and 16 unilaterally deaf CI users. All participants were native speakers of Mandarin Chinese. CI users were divided into two groups according to thresholds in the nonimplanted ear: (1) single-sided deaf (SSD); pure-tone thresholds <25 dB HL at all audiometric frequencies, and (2) Asymmetric hearing loss (AHL; one or more thresholds > 25 dB HL). SRTs were measured for target sentences produced by a male talker in the presence of two masker talkers (different male or female talkers). The target sentence was always presented via loudspeaker directly in front of the listener (0 degrees), and the maskers were either colocated with the target (0 degrees) or spatially separated from the target at +/- 90 degrees. Three segregation cue conditions were tested to measure masking release (MR) relative to the baseline condition: (1) Talker sex, (2) Spatial, and (3) Talker sex + Spatial. For CI users, SRTs were measured with the CI on or off. Results:Binaural MR was significantly better for the NH group than for the AHL or SSD groups (P < 0.001 in all cases). For the NH group, mean MR was largest with the Talker sex + spatial cues (18.8 dB) and smallest for the Talker sex cues (10.7 dB). In contrast, mean MR for the SSD group was largest with the Talker sex + spatial cues (14.7 dB), and smallest with the Spatial cues (4.8 dB). For the AHL group, mean MR was largest with the Talker sex + spatial cues (7.8 dB) and smallest with the Talker sex (4.8 dB) and the Spatial cues (4.8 dB). MR was significantly better with the CI on than off for both the AHL (P = 0.014) and SSD groups (P < 0.001). Across all unilaterally deaf CI users, monaural (acoustic ear alone) and binaural MR were significantly correlated with unaided pure-tone average thresholds in the nonimplanted ear for the Talker sex and Talker sex + spatial conditions (P < 0.001 in both cases) but not for the Spatial condition. Conclusion:Although the CI benefitted unilaterally deaf listeners' segregation of competing speech, MR was much poorer than that observed in NH listeners. Different from previous findings with steady noise maskers, the CI benefit for segregation of competing speech from a different talker sex was greater in the SSD group than in the AHL group. Z8 2

Patient monitoring is crucial in critical care medicine. Perceiving and interpreting multiple vital signs requires a high workload that can lead to decreased situation awareness and consequently inattentional blindness, defined as impaired perception of unexpectedly changing data. To facilitate information transfer, we developed and validated the Visual-Patient avatar. Generated by numerical data, the animation displays the status of vital signs and patient installations according to a user-centered design to improve situation awareness. As a surrogate parameter for information transfer in patient monitoring, we recorded visual attention using eye-tracking data. In this computer-based study, we compared the correlation of visually perceived and correctly interpreted vital signs between a Visual-Patient-avatar ICU and conventional patient monitoring. A total of 50 recruited study participants (25 nurses, 25 physicians) from five European study centers completed five randomized scenarios in both modalities. Using a stationary eye tracker as the primary endpoint, we recorded how long different areas of interest of the two monitoring modalities were viewed. In addition, we tested for a possible association between the length of time an area of interest was viewed and the correctness of the corresponding question. With the conventional monitor, participants looked at the installation site the longest (median 2.13-2.51 s). With the Visual-Patient-avatar ICU, gaze distribution was balanced; no area of interest was viewed for particularly long. For both modalities, the longer an area was viewed, the more likely the associated question was answered incorrectly (OR 0.97, 95% CI 0.95-0.99, p = 0.008). The Visual-Patient-avatar ICU facilitates and improves information transfer through its visualizations, especially with written information. The longer an area of interest was viewed, the more likely the associated question was answered incorrectly.

Purpose In this era of smartphone applications, brands are actively developing applications to occupy the consumer's mobile phone space, adding many practical functions to their applications to increase brand exposure or consumer interest in the brand. Augmented reality (AR) has evolved rapidly in the past decade because of technological breakthroughs, making AR no longer an untouchable technology, but one that can be easily used on almost every phone. Therefore, this study aims to combine extended customer experience with AR marketing activities to explain and predict usage and purchase intention. Design/methodology/approach The eight key factors integrated into the extended customer experience are used as environmental stimulation factors, and Wanna Kicks and FitGlasses are used as experimental environments. A total of 193 valid samples were collected from users with AR experience. The empirical data is processed and verified by partial least squares in this study. Findings Customer experience has received increasing attention in the field of marketing research. This study developed a model to evaluate the antecedents and consequences of AR marketing activities by systematically adding customer experience, continuance intention, purchase intention and customer engagement, and then linking them to the AR application environment. This study presents the academic and practical implications, which can provide future research directions and references for brand marketing strategies and AR applications. Originality/value This study adds interactivity, vividness, perceived usefulness and novelty to the extended concept of customer experience. Therefore, the authors proposed that the extended customer experience can be used to measure the perceptions related to AR applications. This study is expected to provide scholars and practitioners in AR fields with a better understanding of the causes and consequences of customer experience with innovative technologies and to suggest effective marketing recommendations.

The presentation of virtual object shapes using a finger-mounted pin-array haptic display is one of the major topics of research in haptics. If this can be realized, the operability of objects and immersive feeling in the virtual space will be improved. For now, previous studies showed that shape recognition performance using such a pin-array display was far inferior from the performance in the real world using a real object. We considered that both the density of contact points and coverage areas are essential to improve the recognition performance. However, the size of the actuator that pushes each pin was a constraint, and the previously developed display could not have a large contact density and coverage area. This study proposes a novel design of a finger-mounted pin-array display that works around the constraint. We adopted a pneumatic drive because the pneumatic actuator, or air cylinder, can be a simple structure and can be arranged in a dense array. Our developed finger-mounted display has a higher contact point density and a larger coverage area than any other previously developed devices. It covered more than 4 times larger area on fingerpad with denser pin arrangements. An experiment to evaluate the recognition performance with the device was conducted. Participants discriminated 10 kinds of 2D patterned alphabet shapes with only haptic information. The result showed participants could recognize the ten kinds of 2D patterned shape with 93.8% accuracy. Though our participants' task in the experiment was more difficult, the accuracy was better than previous studies. It suggests the effect of the higher density and the larger size of the coverage.

Background and ObjectiveMental health treatment for psychosexual problems is effective, but treatment rates are low. Metaverse-based therapy offers one solution to increase overall treatment rates. Understanding attitudes towards this novel approach could lead to wider adoption of metaverse-based therapy, resulting in higher treatment rates for psychosexual problems.MethodsTwenty-one participants across three focus groups of different ages shared their perceptions and attitudes about metaverse-based therapy broadly and for treating sexual disorders. A content analysis of the transcribed text from the focus groups using qualitative data analysis software was conducted.ResultsParticipants identified several perceived benefits of metaverse-based intervention, including avoiding the perceived embarrassment of going to a clinic and accessing patients (a) with diverse physical or mental functionality, (b) living in remote areas and/or (c) balancing different family/work obligations or duties. The two main concerns with metaverse-based therapy were the fear of online therapy being less personal than traditional therapy and the technological fluency needed. Clarifying their acceptance of the therapy, participants reported that they would be more likely to engage in metaverse-based therapy if they trusted their therapist. Also, although it might be effective for mild and moderate disorders, participants were more reluctant about its use for severe mental illness.ConclusionsResults suggest that attitudes towards metaverse-based intervention are mainly positive, since it removes some barriers that hinder access to psychological treatment in general and, specifically, for problems of a sexual nature.Patient and Public ContributionDuring the design stage, a person with sexual difficulties was consulted to understand the patient's perspective. Members of the public advised the implementation of the focus groups. Three potential service users were involved in the coding of the text during the content analysis.

Background: Many contemporary systems for neurorehabilitation utilize 3D virtual environments (VEs) that allow for training patients' hand or arm movements. In the current paper we comparatively test the effectiveness of two characteristics of VEs in rehabilitation training when utilizing a 3D haptic interaction device: Stereo Visualization (monoscopic vs stereoscopic image presentation) and Graphic Environment (2.5D vs 3D). Method: An experimental study was conducted using a factorial within-subjects design. Patients (10 MS, 8 CVA) completed three tasks, each including a specific arm-movement along one of three directional axes (left-right, up-down and forward-backward). Results: The use of stereoscopy within a virtual training environment for neurorehabilitation of CVA and MS patients is most beneficial when the task itself requires movement in depth. Further, the 2.5D environment yields the highest efficiency and accuracy in terms of patients' movements. These findings were, however, dependent on participants' stereoscopic ability. Conclusion: Despite the performance benefits of stereoscopy, our findings illustrate the non-triviality of choices of using stereoscopy, and the type of graphic environment implemented. These choices should be made with the task and target group, and even the individual patient in mind.

This study evaluated the effects of a three-dimensional (3D) imaging system on laparoscopy performance compared with the conventional 2D system using a novel one-camera 3D system. In this study, 21 novices and 6 experienced surgeons performed two tasks with 2D and 3D systems in 4 consecutive days. Performance time and error as well as subjective parameters such as depth perception and visual discomforts were assessed in each session. Electromyography was used to evaluate the usage of muscles. The 3D system provided significantly greater depth perception than the 2D system. The errors during the two tasks were significantly lower with 3D system in novice group, but performance time was not different between the 2D and 3D systems. The novices had more dizziness with the 3D system in first 2 days. However, the severity of dizziness was minimal (less than 2 of 10) and overcome with the passage of time. About 54% of the novices and 80% of the experienced surgeons preferred the 3D system. Electromyography (EMG) showed a tendency toward less usage of the right arm and more usage of the left arm with the 3D system. The new 3D imaging system increased the accuracy of laparoscopy performance, with greater depth perception and only minimal dizziness. The authors expect that the 3D laparoscopic system could provide good depth perception and accuracy in surgery.

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to explore whether distinctive modes (observation vs control) of presenting diverse content differentially influence users. To achieve this goal, The authors first conceptualize empathy as social cognition and discuss the possible psychological mechanisms for divergent associations between observation-based media (i.e. video media) and control-based media (i.e. game media). Design/methodology/approach - In total, 300 adults (150 females) participated in this study through an online survey. Findings - Time spent with video media (television and film) was positively associated with empathy, which in turn was associated with enhanced social connectedness. However, time spent on game media (video games, computer games, and smartphone games) was negatively associated with empathy, which in turn was associated with inferior social connectedness. Originality/value - While previous studies on the effects of media have focussed mainly on content, the present study focusses on the effects of mode. The mode-focussed approach presents evidence contradictory to the content-focussed approach.

The use of anthropomorphic avatars provides Internet users the opportunity and freedom to manipulate their identity. As cyberspace becomes a haven for deceptive behavior, human-computer interaction research will need to be carried out to study and understand these deceptive behaviors. The objective of this research is to investigate the behavior of deceivers and non-deceivers (or truth-tellers) in the cyberspace environment. We examine if the intention to deceive others influences one's choice of avatars in the online chat environment. We also investigate if communication medium (text-only vs. avatar-supported chat) influences one's perception of trustworthiness of the communication partner. A lab experiment was conducted in an online chat environment with dyads. The results indicate that in the text-only chat environment, subjects who were deceiving their partner experienced higher anxiety levels than those who were truthful to their partner; however, the same phenomenon was not observed in the avatar-supported chat environment. This suggests that "wearing a mask" in cyberspace may reduce anxiety in deceiving others. Additionally, deceivers are more likely to choose avatars that are different from their real selves. The results also show that the use of avatars in a computer-mediated chat environment does not have an impact on one's perceived trustworthiness. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Speed and consistency of target-shifting play a crucial role in human ability to perform complex tasks. Shifting our gaze between objects of interest quickly and consistently requires changes both in depth and direction. Gaze changes in depth are driven by slow, inconsistent vergence movements which rotate the eyes in opposite directions, while changes in direction are driven by ballistic, consistent movements called saccades, which rotate the eyes in the same direction. In the natural world, most of our eye movements are a combination of both types. While scientific consensus on the nature of saccades exists, vergence and combined movements remain less understood and agreed upon. We eschew the lack of scientific consensus in favor of proposing an operationalized computational model which predicts the completion time of any type of gaze movement during target-shifting in 3D. To this end, we conduct a psychophysical study in a stereo VR environment to collect more than 12,000 gaze movement trials, analyze the temporal distribution of the observed gaze movements, and fit a probabilistic model to the data. We perform a series of objective measurements and user studies to validate the model. The results demonstrate its predictive accuracy, generalization, as well as applications for optimizing visual performance by altering content placement. Lastly, we leverage the model to measure differences in human target-changing time relative to the natural world, as well as suggest scene-aware projection depth. By incorporating the complexities and randomness of human oculomotor control, we hope this research will support new behavior-aware metrics for VR/AR display design, interface layout, and gaze-contingent rendering.

Purpose Due to the lack of relevant literatures on the application of mobile augmented reality (AR) service in beauty industry, the purpose of this study is to explore the impact of the mobile AR service on consumers' purchase behavior and brand awareness in beauty industry. And this study also wants to identify the different effects of the relationship among flow experience (concentration, playfulness and exploratory behavior), decision comfort and purchase intention moderated by different levels of consumer characteristics (individualism and fashion innovativeness). Design/methodology/approach This study set up a research model based on SOR model. The study used AR mobile app named "Youcam Makeup" as stimulus to do the questionnaire survey. First, the authors describe the way to use this AR mobile app and make sure each participant experience this app for about 5 min to understand AR well and finally, finished the questionnaire. SPSS and AMOS were used to do data analysis. Findings The results of this study showed that first, in the field of fashion and beauty makeup, compared with the ability to control or modify virtual contents - the perception of vividness, reality and aesthetics - are more relevant to consumers. Second, besides the playfulness that AR provides, AR technology can also encourage exploratory behavior in consumers, which will directly affect their intention to purchase. Finally, when using mobile AR technology, consumers with different levels of individualism or fashion innovativeness will gain different perceptions of their purchase intention. Research limitations/implications First, the study targets millennial female consumers. The future studies can be conducted on consumers of different age groups. Second, the sampling of this study is insufficient; if it had more samples, the results would be more accurate. Finally, AR is integrated into people's lives; therefore, to not be limited to millennial consumers, demographic characteristics need to be applied to future research. Practical implications This study provides a theoretical basis for marketers to formulate marketing strategies. First of all, marketers can use this technology to provide consumers with a more vivid and specific online shopping experience. Second, technical developers can focus on developing the features of AR with the strongest consumer perception based on the results of this study. Finally, this study researched consumer traits that can deepen understanding of both emerging technologies and consumer behavior as compared to research only on mobile AR services. Marketers need to understand the characteristics of consumers when making marketing plans and expand the characteristics of AR technology corresponding to the characteristics of consumers to attract consumers with different attributes. Social implications By using interactive technology, the brand can be closer to consumers and provide help and fun for consumers when they consume online. AR can also lead to future tool reuse behavior, thus establishing long-term relationships with consumers. More than that, AR can be used with the mobile phone, which can be used anytime and anywhere, eliminating space and time constraints. Therefore, the brand can establish cheap and extensive technology as a marketing strategy. Also, it can become one of the most common marketing tools. Originality/value This research fills the gap in the literature on mobile AR technology in the beauty industry. Such knowledge will not only facilitate the online development of brands but also help support retailers' development in the beauty industry, providing necessary capabilities for the expansion and application of this new technology. With regard to marketing strategies, the study on consumer characteristic provides the knowledge foundation for marketers to create marketing strategies, which is easier for them to formulate marketing schemes favorable to the brand for varying consumers.

Cognitive abilities similar to other mental or physical abilities develop and change during the course of life. Spatial processing is a cognitive ability, which has been suggested to deteriorate by age [1]. The focus of this paper is to study the change of real time egocentric spatial processing in humans by age. For this, an interactive computer game played with a 2DOF manipulandum was designed. The game consists of goal-oriented motor tasks, in which the player must move the robot arm toward a desired spatial cue in a virtual 2D environment in every trial for a total number of 72 trials. The spatial cues are four final destinations and a starting location, which change their position in every new trial of the game. 37 individuals with no cognitive impairment were split into 3 groups according to different age range (children, young, and elderly) and participated in this experiment. Their spatial processing ability was assessed and compared between the age groups. The results show the children (7-12 y) and elderly (65(+) y) performed very similar and significantly worse than the young adult participants.

To overcome the challenges presented by COVID-19, the tourism sector has introduced online tours to the market, in which tour guides introduce product via video conferencing tools. This study aims to investigate the factors influencing people's behavioral intentions to consume this new product. For this study, we conducted a web-based questionnaire survey in Japan in December 2020. The data analysis results confirm that positive emotions and telepresence positively influence people's intention to participate in online tours. Additionally, we identified that travel constraints did not directly influence participation intention. Alternatively, they have an indirect influence through interactions with other factors. Specifically, structural constraints caused by external factors, such as lack of time, amplified the effect of authenticity, but attenuated the effect of telepresence. In addition, interpersonal constraints, such as incompatibility of schedules with companions, were found to increase the effect of telepresence, but weaken the effect of authenticity. Furthermore, the analysis results suggested that while daily travel constraints indicated a significant mediation influence on tourists' participation intention, COVID-19 constraints indicated no significant influence for either direct or indirect effects. The findings of this study are beneficial in designing online travel experiences that can benefit tourists under travel constraints in the future.

While the literature supports the potential to provide occupational therapy through telemedicine, there are several design challenges embedded in creating an at-home telemonitoring system that can visualize the complex biomechanical data required for clinical decision making. The challenge highlighted here is the development of measures that align with current decision making methods, which will support the integration and translation of the technology. A modified cognitive task analysis methodology is presented that is composed of three segments: characterizing the subject matter, defining relevant information, and formalizing requirements. This method was implemented through observations of eight therapists over 21 patient sessions. There were nine unique modes of interaction observed between the clinician and patient. Embedded within these interactions were 14 different features monitored. Relevant performance measures were defined from these interactions to provide perception and comprehension situation awareness (SA) to the clinician about the patients task performance. Using specific activities observed during therapy sessions, sample metrics and a visualization are presented that followed from the SA requirements. Finally, the technological challenges associated with making these measurements were identified.

Driving simulators have been becoming little by little a suitable tool oriented to improve the knowledge about the domain of driving research. The investigations that can be conducted with this type of tool concern the driver's behaviour, the design/control of vehicles, testing assistance systems for driving and the roadway infrastructure's impact. The benefits of simulation studies are many: lack of any real risk to users, reproducible situations, time savings and reduced testing costs. In addition, their flexibility allows to test situations that do not exist in reality or at least they rarely and randomly exist. The topic of the present work concerns the development of a brand new dynamic model for an existing car simulator owned by LEPSIS laboratory (Laboratoire d'Expliotation, Perception, Simulateurs et Silulations - Laboratory for Road Operations, Perception, Simulators and Simulations) belonging to COSYS (COmposants et SYStems), which is a department of IFSTTAR institute (Institut Francais des Sciences et Technologies des Transports, de l'Amenagement et des Reseaux - French Institute of Science and Technology for Transport, Spatial Planning, Development and Networks) site. Once uses and advantages of driving simulators are listed and described, imperfections and limitations of the existing driving vehicle model belonging to the two Degrees of Freedom (DoF) driving simulator of the laboratory are highlighted. Subsequently, structure of the brand new vehicle model, designed by means of Matlab Simulink software, are illustrated through the theoretical framework. Since the vehicle model must refer to a real one, an instrumented Peugeot 406 has been chosen because all its technical features are provided and inserted both on the present model and Prosper/Callas 4.9 by OKTAL software to create a highly sophisticated and accurate virtual version of the commercial car. The validation of this new vehicle model is performed, where the results returned by several different driving scenarios are compared with the ones provided by Prosper software. All the scenarios are simulated with both existing and new vehicle model uploaded in the driving simulator, and the outputs are subsequently compared with the ones returned by Prosper in order to demonstrate the improvements done. Finally, being the number of outputs provided by the new model definitively higher with respect to previous one, additional validations concerning the further results are accomplished.

The inspection, analysis, and modification of robot programs in series production processes is a challenging recurring task in the automotive industry. Especially the holistic analysis of detected defects and the subsequent derivation and application of corrective measures to the underlying robot program is a complex task requiring extensive knowledge in multiple fields. Existing scientific literature has demonstrated that the utilisation of Augmented Reality (AR) assisted robot programming systems (ARRPS) improves programming efficiency as well as intuitiveness when compared to traditional programming methods. However, the accuracy especially of mobile AR devices limits the applicability of AR in industrial applications. We propose to leverage the iterative nature of the optimisation process common in series production and utilise the visual capabilities of the human worker to define corrective measures based on the inspected real process result. This mitigates the impact of limited tracking accuracy as the optimisation is based on the visual perception of the user and thus decoupled from the accuracy of the employed AR device. We implemented our system based on the requirements of a sealing workstation of the Mercedes-Benz Group in Germany. A conducted experiment validates the functionality and indicates that the presented strategy of iterative AR assisted robot programming enables optimisations with a similar accuracy as the Teach-In programming as well as a significantly reduced programming time. This suggests that utilising an ARRPS can be highly beneficial in the inspection, analysis, and modification of sealing applications common in automotive series production processes. As the presented iterative AR assisted robot programming is neither limited to sealing nor to the automotive sector it can be adapted for various robot-automated applications like path-welding, gluing, or painting and can extend its utility to related sectors such as aviation or the marine industry.

Increasingly, binocular disparity has become commonplace in telepresence systems despite the additional cost of its provision. Experiments comparing performance under monocular and binocular viewing are often cited as justification for its use. Here we question whether this experimental comparison and provide an important set of data which compares performance on a motor task under binocular, monocular and bi-ocular (where both eyes receive the same view) conditions. Binocular cues were found to be particularly important in the control of the transport component. In the binocular conditions peak velocity scaling with object distance was greater than in the other conditions, and in the bi-ocular condition, where the binocular distance cues conflicted with pictorial information, no scaling was evident. For the grasp component, even in the presence of conflicting size and depth information, grip scaling remained equivalent in all conditions. For the transport component at least, binocular cues appear important and the decrease in performance observed in behavioural studies under monocular conditions is not attributable to lack of information in one eye but rather to the lack of binocular depth cues. Therefore in the design of telepresence systems to be used in telemanipulation tasks, the use of stereoscopic display technology seems justified.

Haptics involves human touch sensing and tactile feedback and plays a crucial role in physical interactions of humans with their environment. There is an ever-increasing interest in development of haptic technologies, due to their role in various applications such as robotics, virtual and augmented reality, healthcare, and smart electronics. Electrically driven actuation mechanisms for soft materials like dielectric elastomer actuators (DEAs), electrohydraulic soft actuators (ESAs), ionic polymer-metal composites (IPMCs), and liquid crystal elastomers (LCEs) hold the potential for the development of the next generation of haptic feedback devices due to a variety of advantages such as light weight and compact design, untethered activation and control, large actuation strains, and distributed and localized actuation. Herein, a detailed look is taken at the advancement in material designs for these electrically driven soft actuators. A detailed analysis of the different strategies for improving the electromechanical performance of existing material systems is presented. Approaches adopted to synthesize novel material systems are explained. Advancements in compliant electrode materials for the electrically driven soft actuators are also described. The conclusion reflects on the main challenges in the field and provides perspectives on recent advancements expected to have a significant impact.

In 2 experiments, U.S. Army soldiers viewed computer-generated displays that presented battlefield information from 3 different frames of reference: a 2D plan view display (with contour lines), a 3D exocentric perspective display, and an interactive 3D immersed display. In Experiment I, soldiers made geographical judgments. The results suggested that both 3D displays suffered from ambiguity of distance estimates but that the 3D immersed display was most accurate for judging whether a location is directly visible from another. In Experiment 2, the 3D exocentric display was compared with a 3D immersed view, coupled with a small 2D inset map, in a more continuous battlefield scenario in which judgments of enemy activity were made. The findings of 3D ambiguity were replicated from Experiment 1. The accuracy of judgments of enemy activity suffered with the immersed display when information necessary to answer correctly did not appear in the initial forward view and required panning to acquire, reflecting the cognitive demands of integration across different views. This display also hindered soldiers' ability to report changes in enemy activity from one scene to the next. The results of this research will help to provide guidelines for the appropriate choice of computer display technology to assist in designing battlefield visualization aids. Caution should be exercised in choosing immersive viewpoints.

Four-dimensional (4D) films, which provide special physical effects to the audience with audiovisual stimuli, are gaining more popularity and acceptance. One of the most frequent 4D effects is the object-based motion effect, which refers to the vestibular stimulus generated by a motion chair to emphasize a moving object of interest, e.g., the flying iron man, displayed on the screen. In this paper, we present an algorithm for synthesizing convincing object-based motion effects automatically from a given object motion trajectory. While previous approaches use the 2D object position on the screen as input, our method takes the 3D position and orientation of the object in the camera space and computes its motion proxy that reflects both the object translation and rotation, as well as its size to the viewers' eyes. The proxy is determined based on the results of a perceptual experiment that presents an optimal additive rule of the translation and rotation information scaled by the object's visual size. The motion proxy is fed to a motion cueing algorithm (MCA) that computes the command using a washout filter or model predictive control. The most appropriate MCA for our purpose is selected from six candidates by a user study. We also consider the effects of visual perception by incorporating two types of motion field equations into the computation of the visually perceived velocity. The results of a user study indicate that our algorithm can generate compelling object-based motion effects that better enhance the 4D film viewing experience than the previous methods.

Computer-aided surgery (CAS), the intraoperative application of biomedical visualization techniques, appears to be one of the most promising fields of application for augmented reality (AR), the display of additional computer-generated graphics over a real-world scene. Typically a device such as a head-mounted display (HMD) is used for AR. However, considerable technical problems connected with AR have limited the intraoperative application of HMDs up to now. One of the difficulties in using HMDs is the requirement for a common optical focal plane for both the real-world scene and the computer-generated image, and acceptance of the HMD by the user in a surgical environment. In order to increase the clinical acceptance of AR, we have adapted the Varioscope (Life Optics, Vienna), a miniature, cost-effective head-mounted operating binocular, for AR. In this paper, we present the basic design of the modified HMD, and the method and results of an extensive laboratory study for photogrammetric calibration of the Varioscope's computer displays to a real-world scene. In a series of 16 calibrations with varying zoom factors and object distances, mean calibration error was found to be 1.24 +/- 0.38 pixels or 0.12 +/- 0.05 mm for a 640 x 480 display. Maximum error accounted for 3.33 +/- 1.04 pixels or 0.33 +/- 0.12 mm. The location of a position measurement probe of an optical tracking system was transformed to the display with an error of less than 1 mm in the real world in 56% of all cases. For the remaining cases, error was below 2 mm. We conclude that the accuracy achieved in our experiments is sufficient for a wide range of CAS applications.

Purpose : To examine the effectiveness of combining virtual environment (VE) instruction with additional desk-top tasks, based on the Luria-Vygotsky methodology, for spatial remediation in children having complex motor disabilities restricting movement. Method : In Experiment 1, from among children attending for residential rehabilitation, an experimental subgroup had additional spatial training using a VE and corresponding desk-top models. All children were tested at the start and end of training, using four spatial tests. In Experiment 2, larger groups of children (pair-matched for initial performance) were given the same training as in Experiment 1, but experimentals received both VE-based training and supporting tasks designed to improve executive functions and verbal regulation of spatial functioning. Assessment involved a wider range of tests than in Experiment 1. Results : In Experiment 1, both groups showed improvement at retest, but experimentals showed greater improvement. Children beginning with the lowest level of cognitive performance failed to benefit from the additional training. In Experiment 2 the experimental group made significantly greater improvement than controls, irrespective of initial performance level. Conclusions : VE-based spatial training is effective for children with complex disabilities, particularly when combined with training that remediates cognitive weaknesses.

Objectives/Hypotheses: An eyewear mounted visual display ("User-worn see-through display") projecting an artificial horizon aligned with the user's head and body position in space can prevent or lessen motion sickness in susceptible individuals when in a motion provocative environment as well as aid patients undergoing vestibular rehabilitation. In this project, a wearable display device, including software technology and hardware, was developed and a phase I feasibility study and phase II clinical trial for safety and efficacy were performed. Study Design: Both phase I and phase II were prospective studies funded by the NIH. The phase II study used repeated measures for motion intolerant subjects and a randomized control group (display device/no display device) pre-posttest design for patients in vestibular rehabilitation. Methods: Following technology and display device development, 75 patients were evaluated by test and rating scales in the phase II study; 25 subjects with motion intolerance used the technology in the display device in provocative environments and completed subjective rating scales, whereas 50 patients were evaluated before and after vestibular rehabilitation (25 using the display device and 25 in a control group) using established test measures. Results: All patients with motion intolerance rated the technology as helpful for nine symptoms assessed, and 96% rated the display device as simple and easy to use. Duration of symptoms significantly decreased with use of the technology displayed. In patients undergoing vestibular rehabilitation, there were no significant differences in amount of change from pre- to posttherapy on objective balance tests between display device users and controls. However, those using the technology required significantly fewer rehabilitation sessions to achieve those outcomes than the control group. Conclusions: A user-worn see-through display, utilizing a visual fixation target coupled with a stable artificial horizon and aligned with user movement, has demonstrated substantial benefit for individuals susceptible to motion intolerance and spatial disorientation and those undergoing vestibular rehabilitation. The technology developed has applications in any environment where motion sensitivity affects human performance.

Objective: To find an association between cognitive-perceptual problems of older drivers and unsafe driving performance during simulated automobile driving in a virtual environment. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: A driver evaluation clinic in a rehabilitation hospital. Participants: Fifty-five drivers aged 65 years or older and 48 drivers in their late twenties to early forties. Methods: All participants underwent evaluation of cognitive-perceptual function and driving performance, and the results were compared between older and younger drivers. The association between cognitive-perceptual function and driving performance was analyzed. Main Outcome Measurements: Cognitive-perceptual function was evaluated with the Cognitive Perceptual Assessment for Driving (CPAD), a computer-based assessment tool consisting of depth perception, sustained attention, divided attention, the Stroop test, the digit span test, field dependency, and trail-making test A and B. Driving performance was evaluated with use of a virtual reality based driving simulator. During simulated driving, car crashes were recorded, and an occupational therapist observed unsafe performances in controlling speed, braking, steering, vehicle positioning, making lane changes, and making turns. Results: Thirty-five older drivers did not pass the CPAD test, whereas all of the younger drivers passed the test. When using the driving simulator, a significantly greater number of older drivers experienced car crashes and demonstrated unsafe performance in controlling speed, steering, and making lane changes. CPAD results were associated with car crashes, steering, vehicle positioning, and making lane changes. Older drivers who did not pass the CPAD test are 4 times more likely to experience a car crash, 3.5 times more likely to make errors in steering, 2.8 times more likely to make errors in vehicle positioning, and 6.5 times more likely to make errors in lane changes than are drivers who passed the CPAD test. Conclusion: Unsafe driving performance and car crashes during simulated driving were more prevalent in older drivers than in younger drivers. Unsafe performance in steering, vehicle positioning, making lane changes, and car crashes were associated with cognitive-perceptual dysfunction. PM R 2011;3:198-203

Scaled teleoperation is increasingly prevalent in medicine, as well as in other applications of robotics. Visual feedback in such systems is essential and should make maximal use of natural hand- eye coordination. This paper describes a new method of visual feedback for scaled teleoperation in which the operator manipulates the handle of a remote tool in the presence of a registered virtual image of the target in real time. The method adapts a concept already used successfully in a new medical device called the Sonic Flashlight, which permits direct in situ visualization of ultrasound during invasive procedures. The Sonic Flashlight uses a flat-panel monitor and a half- silvered mirror to merge the visual outer surface of a patient with a simultaneous ultrasound scan of the patient's interior. Adapting the concept to scaled teleoperation involves removing the imaging device and the target to a remote location and adding a master- slave control device. This permits the operator to see his hands, along with what appears to be the tool, and the target, merged in a workspace that preserves natural hand- eye coordination. Three functioning prototypes are described, one based on ultrasound and two on light microscopy. The limitations and potential of the new approach are discussed. Z8 0

SIGNIFICANCE: For people with limited vision, wearable displays hold the potential to digitally enhance visual function. As these display technologies advance, it is important to understand their promise and limitations as vision aids. PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to test the potential of a consumer augmented reality (AR) device for improving the functional vision of people with near-complete vision loss. METHODS: An AR application that translates spatial information into high-contrast visual patterns was developed. Two experiments assessed the efficacy of the application to improve vision: an exploratory study with four visually impaired participants and a main controlled study with participants with simulated vision loss (n = 48). In both studies, performance was tested on a range of visual tasks (identifying the location, pose and gesture of a person, identifying objects, and moving around in an unfamiliar space). Participants' accuracy and confidence were compared on these tasks with and without augmented vision, as well as their subjective responses about ease of mobility. RESULTS: In the main study, the AR application was associated with substantially improved accuracy and confidence in object recognition (all P< .001) and to a lesser degree in gesture recognition (P< .05). There was no significant change in performance on identifying body poses or in subjective assessments of mobility, as compared with a control group. CONCLUSIONS: Consumer AR devices may soon be able to support applications that improve the functional vision of users for some tasks. In our study, both artificially impaired participants and participants with near-complete vision loss performed tasks that they could not do without the AR system. Current limitations in system performance and form factor, as well as the risk of overconfidence, will need to be overcome. Copyright (C) 2018 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Optometry. Z8 1

BACKGROUND: Immersive virtual reality (VR) is a novel form of distraction analgesia, yet its effects on pain-related brain activity when used adjunctively with opioid analgesics are unknown. We used subjective pain ratings and functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure pain and pain-related brain activity in subjects receiving opiold and/or VR distraction. METHODS: Healthy subjects (n = 9) received thermal pain stimulation and were exposed to four intervention conditions in a within-subjects design: (a) control (no analgesia), (b) opioid administration [hydromorphone (4 ng/mL target plasma level)], (c) immersive VR distraction, and (d) combined opioid + VR. Outcomes included subjective pain reports (0-10 labeled graphic rating scales) and blood oxygen level-dependent assessments of brain activity in five specific, pain-related regions of interest. RESULTS: Opioid alone significantly reduced subjective pain unpleasantness ratings (P < 0.05) and significantly reduced pain-related brain activity in the insula (P < 0.05) and thalmus (P < 0.05). VR alone significantly reduced both worst pain (P < 0.01) and pain unpleasantness (P < 0.01) and significantly reduced pain-related brain activity in the insula (P < 0.05), thalmus (P < 0.05), and SS2 (P < 0.05). Combined opioid + VR reduced pain reports more effectively than did opioid alone on all subjective pain measures (P < 0.01). Patterns of pain-related blood oxygen level-dependent activity were consistent with subjective analgesic reports. CONCLUSIONS: These subjective pain reports and objective functional magnetic resonance imaging results demonstrate converging evidence for the analgesic efficacy of opioid administration alone and VR distraction alone. Furthermore, patterns of pain-related brain activity support the significant subjective analgesic effects of VR distraction when used as an adjunct to opioid analgesia. These results provide preliminary data to support the clinical use of multimodal (e.g., combined pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic) analgesic techniques.

Learning manual skills is a fundamental part of health care education, and motor, sensory and cognitive learning processes are essential aspects of professional development. Simulator training has been shown to enhance factors that facilitate motor and cognitive learning. The present study aimed to investigate the students' experiences and thoughts about their learning through simulation skills training. The study was designed for an educational setting at a clinical skills centre. Ten third-year undergraduate nursing students performed urethral catheterisation, using the virtual reality simulator UrecathVision((TM)), which has haptic properties. The students practised in pairs. Each session was videotaped and the video was used to stimulate recall in subsequent interviews. The interviews were analysed using qualitative content analysis. The analysis from interviews resulted in three themes: what the students learn, how the students learn, and the simulator's contribution to the students' learning. Students learned manual skills, how to perform the procedure, and professional behaviour. They learned by preparing, watching, practising and reflecting. The simulator contributed by providing opportunities for students to prepare for the skills training, to see anatomical structures, to feel resistance, and to become aware of their own performance ability. The findings show that the students related the task to previous experiences, used sensory information, tested themselves and practised techniques in a hands-on fashion, and reflected in and on action. The simulator was seen as a facilitator to learning the manual skills. The study design, with students working in pairs combined with video recording, was found to enhance opportunities for reflection.

The illusion that an artificial or virtual object becomes part of one's body has been demonstrated and productively investigated in the past two decades. Empirical and theoretical accounts of this phenomenon suggest that the body ownership illusion relies not on a single process, but rather on the alignment of the biological and the alternative bodies across multiple aspects. However, the portrayal of these aspects and the demarcation of their neurophysiological correlates has yet to be established. Our study examines electroencephalographic (EEG) markers of two extensively studied systems in the context of virtual body ownership illusion: the mirror-neuron system (MNS) and the error-monitoring system (EMS). We designed an experimental manipulation of brief involuntary and unexpected virtual hand bounces, which triggers both systems, and examined how the response of EEG markers of these systems to this manipulation is modulated by three aspects of body ownership: agency, visuotactile synchronicity, and semantic congruence between the participant's hands and its virtual representation. We found evidence for enhanced MNS-related power suppression at the Mu band in the synchronous and semantic congruence conditions. On the other hand, the EMS-related Pe/P300 wave was reduced by semantic congruence. This Pe/P300 effect was stronger among participants who exhibited higher acceptance of the spatial illusion and an increased tendency for affective empathy. Mu power and Pe/P300 were not correlated, suggesting a dissociation between the distinct aspects of body ownership they probe. The findings suggest that synchronicity and semantic congruence induce sensorimotor sensitivity to the alternative body, whereas the latter parameter also buffers minor erroneous virtual motions. These neurophysiological markers may be added to the arsenal of body ownership probes and incorporated into VR rehabilitation protocols.

Introduction: Recent evidence has started to demonstrate that 360 degrees VR, a type of VR that immerses a user within a 360 degrees video, has advantages over twodimensional (2D) video displays in the context of perceptual-cognitive evaluation and training. However, there is currently a lack of empirical evidence to explain how perceptual-cognitive strategies differ between these two paradigms when performing sports-related tasks. Thus, the objective of this study was to examine and compare the impact of different viewing conditions (e.g., 3D-360 degrees VR and 2D video displays), on gaze behavior and head excursions in a boxing-specific anticipatory task. A secondary objective was to assess the workload associated with each viewing mode, including the level of presence experienced. Thirdly, an exploratory analysis was conducted to evaluate any potential sex differences. Methods: Thirty-two novice participants (16 females) were recruited for this study. A total of 24 single-punch sequences were randomly presented using a standalone VR headset (Pico Neo 3 Pro Eye), with two different viewing modes: 3D-360 degrees VR and 2D. Participants were instructed to respond to the punches with appropriate motor actions, aiming to avoid punches. Gaze behavior was recorded using a Tobii eyetracker embedded in the VR headset. Workload and presence were measured with the SIM-TLX questionnaire. Fixation duration, number of fixations, saccades, search rate and head excursions (roll, pitch, yaw) were analyzed using linear mixed models. Results: The results revealed significant shorter fixation durations and more head excursions (roll, pitch) in 3D-360 degrees VR, compared to the 2D viewing mode (ps < 0.05). The sense of presence was found to be much higher in the 3D-360 degrees VR viewing mode (p < 0.05). No sex differences were observed. These results demonstrate that 360 degrees VR elicited shorter fixation durations but mostly greater head excursions and immersion compared to a 2D projection in the context of a boxing-specific task. Discussion: These findings contribute to the understanding of previous evidence supporting the possible advantages of using 360 degrees VR over 2D for perceptual-cognitive evaluation and training purposes. Further validation studies that compare behaviors and performance in 360 degrees VR with those in the real-world will be needed.

Purpose: To evaluate postural control using a dynamic virtual reality environment and the relationship between postural metrics and history of falls in patients with glaucoma. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: The study involved 42 patients with glaucoma with repeatable visual field defects on standard automated perimetry (SAP) and 38 control healthy subjects. Methods: Patients underwent evaluation of postural stability by a force platform during presentation of static and dynamic visual stimuli on stereoscopic head-mounted goggles. The dynamic visual stimuli presented rotational and translational ecologically valid peripheral background perturbations. Postural stability was also tested in a completely dark field to assess somatosensory and vestibular contributions to postural control. History of falls was evaluated by a standard questionnaire. Main Outcome Measures: Torque moments around the center of foot pressure on the force platform were measured, and the standard deviations of the torque moments (STD) were calculated as a measurement of postural stability and reported in Newton meters (Nm). The association with history of falls was investigated using Poisson regression models. Age, gender, body mass index, severity of visual field defect, best-corrected visual acuity, and STD on dark field condition were included as confounding factors. Results: Patients with glaucoma had larger overall STD than controls during both translational (5.12 +/- 2.39 Nm vs. 3.85 +/- 1.82 Nm, respectively; P = 0.005) and rotational stimuli (5.60 +/- 3.82 Nm vs. 3.93 +/- 2.07 Nm, respectively; P = 0.022). Postural metrics obtained during dynamic visual stimuli performed better in explaining history of falls compared with those obtained in static and dark field condition. In the multivariable model, STD values in the mediolateral direction during translational stimulus were significantly associated with a history of falls in patients with glaucoma (incidence rate ratio, 1.85; 95% confidence interval, 1.30-2.63; P = 0.001). Conclusions: The study presented and validated a novel paradigm for evaluation of balance control in patients with glaucoma on the basis of the assessment of postural reactivity to dynamic visual stimuli using a virtual reality environment. The newly developed metrics were associated with a history of falls and may help to provide a better understanding of balance control in patients with glaucoma. (C) 2015 by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.

The goal of this study was to explore the effects of different spatial sound configurations on visual attention and cognitive effort in an immersive environment. For that purpose, different groups of people were exposed to the same immersive video, but with different soundtrack conditions: mono, stereo, 5.1 and 7.4.1. The different sound conditions consisted of different artistic adaptations of the same soundtrack. During the visualization of the video, participants wore an eye-tracking device and were asked to perform a counting task. Gaze direction and pupil dilation metrics were obtained, as measures of attention and cognitive effort. Results demonstrate that the conditions 5.1 and 7.4.1 were associated with larger distributions of the visual attention, with subjects spending more time gazing at task-irrelevant areas on the screen. The sound condition which led to more concentrated attention on the task-relevant area was mono. The wider the spatial sound configuration, the greater the gaze distribution. Conditions 7.4.1 and 5.1 were also associated with larger pupil dilations than the mono and stereo conditions, showing that these conditions might lead to increased cognitive demand and therefore increased task difficulty. We conclude that sound design should be carefully planned to prevent visual distraction. More surrounding spatialized sounds may lead to more distraction and more difficulty in following audiovisual contents than less distributed sounds. We propose that sound spatialization and soundtrack design should be adapted to the audiovisual content and the task at hand, varying in immersiveness accordingly.

With an increasing number of everyday operations and communications becoming both automated and autonomous, ambient intelligent soundscapes are transforming to accommodate additional sonic feedback, and with it, new frameworks of listening. While this type of research and design of audio augmented technology is not new, the impact pre-existing acoustic environments upon listeners' sense-making activities is rarely considered holistically. Much of the study into the design of effective auditory displays focuses on perceptual acuity and correct source identification, often at the expense of understanding the context of meaning-making. This paper presents a study involving 70 participants who listened to unidentified audio recordings of two archetypal everyday urban sound environments naturally containing artificial signals as well as typical sounds. Using a ThinkAloud protocol we investigated listeners' approaches to meaning-making in both semantic and temporal dimensions. Through a semantic content analysis, we articulate five aspects of sonic meaning-making: spatial, descriptive, experiential, associational and narrative. We further analyse the use of these perceptual elements on a temporal plane, in order to investigate how listeners construct a narrative of what they hear in real-time, naturally evolving as each subsequent sound event is interpreted. Results suggest that while listeners attend to sound events and spatial characteristics of a sound environment at the beginning of a new listening situation, as the soundscape unfolds they utilize associations and familiarity in order to place individual sounds into increasingly coherent narratives. Finally, we suggest that this approach could provide sound designers and human-computer interaction specialists with a model for investigating the context aspects of a soundscape more holistically, allowing them to evaluate the effect of any new designed sounds prior to introduction into real-world environments. RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS Overview of research on listening in complex everyday situations Background on listening to auditory displays in ambient intelligent spaces Large participant study using ThinkAloud protocol Innovative semantic categories of auditory perception Guidelines for design of audio augmented human-computer interaction in everyday spaces

Purpose This paper aims to discuss research ethics in mixed-methods research (MMR) and MMR development with a focus on ethical challenges that stem from working with technical instruments such as mobile eye-trackers. Design/methodology/approach The case of an interdisciplinary mixed-methods development study that aimed at researching the impacts of emerging mobile augmented-reality technologies on the perception of public places serves as an example to discuss research-ethical challenges regarding (1) the practical implementation of the study, (2) data processing and management and (3) societal implications of developing instruments to track and understand human practices. Findings This study reports challenges and experiences in ethical decision-making in the practical implementation of the study regarding the relationship to research subjects, the use of mobile research instruments in public places and the interdisciplinary cooperation among research team members. Further, this paper expounds on ethical challenges and recommendations in data processing and management and with a view to societal implications of method development and the aspirations of transdisciplinarity. This study concludes that institutionalized ethics need to become more flexible, while applied ethics and reflection must make their entry into university curricula across disciplines. Originality/value Complex interdisciplinary mobile and mixed-methods projects that involve sensors and instruments such as mobile eye-trackers are on the rise. However, there is a significant lack of engagement with practical research ethical challenges, practices and requirements in both mixed-methods and method-development literature. By taking a context- and process-oriented perspective focusing on doing ethics, the paper contributes a concrete empirical case to these underdeveloped fields. Z8 0

Observation is recommended in motor rehabilitation. For this reason, the aim of this study was to experimentally test the feasibility and benefit of including mirror feedback in vision-based rehabilitation systems: we projected the user on the screen. We conducted a user study by using a previously evaluated system that improved the balance and postural control of adults with cerebral palsy. We used a within-subjects design with the two defined feedback conditions (mirror and no-mirror) with two different groups of users (8 with disabilities and 32 without disabilities) using usability measures (time-to-start (T-s) and time-to-complete (T-c)). A two-tailed paired samples t-test confirmed that in case of disabilities the mirror feedback facilitated the interaction in vision-based systems for rehabilitation. The measured times were significantly worse in the absence of the user's own visual feedback (T-s = 7.09 (P < 0.001) and T-c = 4.48 (P < 0.005)). In vision-based interaction systems, the input device is the user's own body; therefore, it makes sense that feedback should be related to the body of the user. In case of disabilities the mirror feedback mechanisms facilitated the interaction in vision-based systems for rehabilitation. Results recommends developers and researchers use this improvement in vision-based motor rehabilitation interactive systems.

Although old people make up an extremely vulnerable road-user group, older pedestrians' difficulties have been studied less extensively than those of older drivers, and more knowledge of this issue is still required. The present paper reviews current knowledge of older-adult problems with the main components of pedestrian activity, i.e., walking and obstacle negotiation, wayfinding, and road crossing. Compared to younger ones, old pedestrians exhibit declining walking skills, with a walking speed decrease, less stable balance, less efficient wayfinding strategies, and a greater number of unsafe road crossing behaviors. These difficulties are linked to age-related changes in sensorial, cognitive, physical, and self-perception abilities. It is now known that visual impairment, physical frailty, and attention deficits have a major negative impact on older pedestrians' safety and mobility, whereas the roles of self-evaluation and self-regulation are still poorly understood. All these elements must be taken into consideration, not only in developing effective safety interventions targeting older pedestrians, but also in designing roads and cars. Recent initiatives are presented here and some recommendations are proposed. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Background Many surgical specialties are increasingly looking towards robot-assisted surgeries to improve patient outcome. Surgeons conducting robot-assisted operations require real-time surgical view. Ophthalmic robots can lead to novel vitreoretinal treatments, such as cannulating retinal vessels or even gene delivery to targeted retinal cells. This study investigates the feasibility of smartphone-delivered stereoscopic vision for microsurgical use. Methods A stereo-camera, connected to a laptop, was used to capture the 3D view from a binocular surgical microscope. Wi-Fi connection was used to live-stream the laptop display onto the smartphone screen wirelessly. Finally, a Virtual Reality (VR) headset, which acts as a stereoscope, was used to house the smartphone. The headset wearer then fused these images to achieve stereoscopic perception. Results Using smartphone-delivered 3D vision, the author performed a simulated cataract extraction operation successfully, despite a time lag of 0.354 s +/- 0.038. To the author's knowledge, this is the first simulated ophthalmic operation performed via smartphone-delivered stereoscopic vision. Conclusions Microscopic output in 3D with minimal time lag can be readily achievable with smartphones and VR headsets. Uncoupling the surgeon from the operating microscope is required to achieve tele-presence, an essential step in tele-robotics. Where operating theatre space is a concern, head-mounted displays may be more convenient than 3D televisions. This 3D live-casting technique can be used in teaching and mentoring settings, where microsurgeries can be live-streamed stereo-scopically onto smartphones via local Wi-Fi network. When connected to the internet, microsurgeries can be broadcasted live and viewers worldwide can see the surgeon's view wearing their VR headsets.

Facial expression plays an important role in face to face communication in that it conveys nonverbal information and emotional intent beyond speech. In this paper, an approach for facial expression synthesis with an expressive Chinese talking avatar is proposed, where a layered parametric framework is designed to synthesize intermediate facial expressions using PAD emotional parameters [5], which describe the human emotional state with three nearly orthogonal dimensions. Partial Expression Parameter (PEP) is proposed to depict the facial expression movements in specific face regions, which act as the mid-level expression parameters between the low-level Facial Animation Parameters (FAPs) [11] and the high-level PAD emotional parameters. A pseudo facial expression database is established by cloning the real human expression to avatar and the corresponding emotion states for each expression is annotated using PAD score. An emotion-expression mapping model is trained on the database to map the emotion state (PAD) into facial expression configuration (PEP). Perceptual evaluation shows the input PAD value is consistent with that of human perception on synthetic expression, which supports the effectiveness of our approach.

Purpose Numerous educational applications (APP) have been developed to assist traditional classroom teaching and student learning. APP quality plays a critical role in influencing students' learning behaviors. However, the role negative mindsets, especially computer anxiety, play in how APP quality affects student engagement remains unknown. To address the relationships among APP quality, computer anxiety and student engagement in an APP-based learning environment, we developed an extended information system (IS) success model that includes interface and instructor quality. Design/methodology/approach To empirically test the proposed model, we conducted a survey with a sample of 225 university students and examined the hypotheses using the partial least squares (PLS) method. Findings Computer anxiety was demonstrated to fully mediate the relationships between student engagement and interface quality and service quality and system quality. In addition, the instructor quality acts as a partial mediator of the relationship between computer anxiety and student engagement. Originality/value This study reveals the important mediating role of computer anxiety in APP-assisted learning and the special status of instructor quality and user experience in influencing student engagement. The findings of this study shed meaningful light on the practical implications for instructors and APP software developers.

PurposeThe objective of this study was to analyse the effects of major determinants on VCT adoption intention among higher educational leaders. Also, this study aims to investigate how perceived risk and perceived benefits influence the educational leaders, VCT actual use intention.Design/methodology/approachThe authors used the online survey method to collect the 440 responses through purposive sampling procedure. Structural equation modelling (SEM) technique and Multi Group Analysis procedure were used to test the proposed model and moderating effects.FindingsThe findings revealed that all the four determinants (PE, EE, SI and FC) based on UTAUT model have positive and significant effects on intention to use VCT. Besides this there is a significant and positive effect of intention to use VCT on actual usage of VCT by the educational leaders. The moderating effect of perceived risk and perceived benefits on actual usage of virtual communication also found significant.Research limitations/implicationsThis paper makes its contribution to the literature related to virtual communication technology adoption by including two moderator variables (perceived risk and benefits) that are expected to affect educational leaders' actual usage of VCT. The results can also help researchers and practitioners better understanding the factors that influence higher educational leaders to adopt VCT.Originality/valueThis study proposed a model incorporating the perceived risk and perceived benefits in the UTAUT model to predict the actual use of VCT. The study endeavours to investigate the moderating effects of perceived risk and perceived benefits between ITUVCT and AUVCT in Indian educational context.

Objective: With the advancement of globalization and the progress of science and technology, communication between people of different cultural backgrounds has become increasingly frequent. Cross-cultural communication has become an increasingly common phenomenon in today's world, involving the collision and intermingling of different cultural backgrounds, values, languages and customs. In this process, cross-cultural context has become an inevitable part of people's lives. In this context, people from different cultural backgrounds need to understand, respect and adapt to each other's cultural differences. These differences include not only language, customs, social etiquette and other aspects, but also values, ways of thinking, behavioral norms and other aspects. Therefore, in the cross-cultural context, the dissemination of local cultures across countries is of great significance. By transmitting native cultures to a wider range of people, it can enhance people's knowledge and understanding of native cultures in different places, and thus improve their sense of identity and cohesion. At the same time, the transmission of local culture in the cross-cultural context also helps to promote the exchange and understanding between different cultures, and promote the development of the diversity of world culture. Virtual Reality (VR) technology as a computer simulation system that can experience the virtual world, through the technology virtual and reality combined with each other, with immersive, interactive features into the audio-visual arts, for the dissemination of local culture provides a new way. Audiovisual arts is an art form that uses sound and picture as the means of expression and visual and auditory perception. It includes movies, TV dramas, TV variety shows, dances, dramas and other types. Through the organic combination of picture and sound, it creates artistic images with a sense of time and space and a sense of dynamics, which directly affects the audience's visual and auditory senses and thus produces a unique artistic effect. In the radio and television industry, the innovative integration of VR technology with audiovisual arts brings a new immersive experience by simulating human audiovisual perception, making users feel as if they were immersed in a virtual, three-dimensional, audiovisual environment with a sense of reality. In the meantime, in VR audiovisual arts, the audience can also interact with the virtual environment, and through their own perception and experience to stimulate unlimited imagination and creativity. In the figurative presentation of local culture, VR audiovisual arts in the radio and television industry can be delivered to the audience in a more realistic and vivid way, so that the audience can understand and perceive the history, traditions and customs of the local culture in a more in-depth way. Compared with traditional audiovisual arts, this immersive and in-depth experience can enhance the audience's cognition and perception of local culture, and improve their sense of identity and cohesion. Methods: This experiment adopts the qualitative analysis method to research and analyze the audience effect of VR audiovisual arts in the form of in-depth interviews. The topic of the in-depth interview focuses on the VR cultural variety show "Poetry and Painting of China", which won the "Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Television Union Award", and discusses the communication effect and influence of the program among the audience groups in a specific and in-depth manner. Ten domestic scholars and experts in related fields were selected for the study, and these experts' fields of study include art, culture, media, etc., to ensure that the research results have interdisciplinary depth and breadth. And all of them are audiences who have watched the program and have rich experience and unique insights in cultural communication and artistic expression, providing rich information for the in-depth interviews. The whole interview content centered on the research theme of the communication effect of the VR program "Poetry and Painting of China" on local culture, and five related questions were designed to explore the actual communication effect of local culture through VR audiovisual arts in the audience group. Results: Through in-depth interviews with ten experts and scholars, it can be found that the VR audiovisual program "Poetry and Painting of China" has achieved a good effect of local culture dissemination among the audience. Specifically, the program brings audiences into an immersive Chinese traditional culture scene through VR technology, which immerses them in the unique charm of Chinese traditional culture. Meanwhile, the program has also made some breakthroughs in cultural inheritance and innovation, allowing the audience not only to be satisfied with the artistic form, but also to gain a rich harvest in terms of cultural knowledge, and to have a deeper understanding and knowledge of the characteristics and connotations of Chinese poetic and pictorial culture, which in turn stimulates the audience's awareness of cultural inheritance and cultural self-confidence. However, VR audiovisual programs still have some deficiencies in the dissemination of local culture, such as the limited level of technology, cross-cultural communication barriers, and limited dissemination channels that still need to be improved. In response to these problems, experts also put forward some specific suggestions, such as increasing R&D efforts on VR technology, expanding the scope of dissemination by utilizing multiple channels, and attracting audiences at different levels in content production, with a view to providing some references and help for VR audiovisual programs in disseminating local culture. Conclusions: This study finds that VR audiovisual arts is of great significance to the communication effect of local culture in cross-cultural context. Through the integration with local culture, VR audiovisual arts can not only enhance the audience's sense of cultural identity, promote cultural dissemination and inheritance, facilitate cross-cultural communication and understanding, and enhance the national image, but also expand domestic and international cultural communication channels. Therefore, we should fully recognize the potential and role of VR audiovisual arts in the dissemination of local culture. In addition, there are still some existing problems that need to be noticed and improved, such as limited technical level, cross-cultural communication barriers, limited communication channels and other deficiencies in the process of VR audiovisual art's dissemination of local culture in the cross-cultural context. In this regard, this art form will also be actively explored and applied in the future to promote the inheritance and development of local culture, advance global cross-cultural communication and exchange, and contribute to the prosperity and development of world culture.

In the clinical vascular interventional surgery, experienced surgeons usually rely on visual feedback to reason tool-tissue interaction, because haptic forces are easily contaminated by frictions between the catheter and the introducer sheath, which brings difficulty in collision force perceptions. Thus, cognitive skills are highly demanded for novice surgeons to thoroughly interpret the relative positions between tool and tissue in images and make appropriate decisions about further catheter motions in case of collisions. In this paper, an operator & x2019;s cognitive skills training system has been introduced, which exploits the tactile sensation to reinforce the visualized spatial positions between catheter tip and vascular wall in the VR simulator. In cooperation with the collision alert module (CAM) in the VR simulator, the newly developed catheter manipulator can provide tactile sensations for novices when catheter tip is threaded beyond safety boundary, so that the VR exhibited tool-tissue interaction can be deliberately intensified. For demonstrating such tactile sensations adequate to strengthen visions, the system model has been established to facilitate the analysis in the perspective of operator & x2019;s kinesthetic perception. A series of experiments have been conducted at last and the results reveal that the catheter manipulator can not only realize the accurate catheter motions but also provide the enough tactile sensations for novices. Moreover, statistical data prove that subjects under cognitive trainings have developed the ability to interpret the relative spatial positions between catheter tip and vascular wall. Such findings support that the operator & x2019;s cognitive skills can be enhanced by the tactile reinforcement of VR visualized tool-tissue interaction. Z8 0

Social presence, which refers to the psychological phenomenon of perceiving other persons in technology mediated communication as "real" and with whom one can connect, has gained an increasing interest by teachers and researchers involved in designing online, hybrid, and blended learning environments, particularly group learning settings known as computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL). While some scholars attribute social presence primarily to the physical attributes of communication media, others emphasize the importance of social contextual and individual factors. Despite considering these factors, they still cannot fully explain the varying degrees of social presence experienced across different communication and collaboration modes and modalities. Consequently, there is a need for a more comprehensive theoretical account on the antecedents of social presence. In this article we propose such an account that integrates the social information processing (SIP) theory, construal level theory (CLT), and telepresence theory into one social presence framework. In line with CLT, we propose that social presence is also influenced by the impressions (construals) we construct from other persons not only through the accumulation of messages over time but also through the psychological distance we feel to those persons, which may be imposed by features of the communication media or realities of the learning context. Further, in line with telepresence theory, we propose that social presence is influenced by the sense of being "present" in the remote physical or virtual place, as this is where other salient persons "are." This comprehensive theoretical framework allows us to understand varying degrees of social presence while in (pseudo) real-time and asynchronous communication and collaboration using a variety of different communication media ranging from text-based (e.g., e-mail, instant text messaging) to immersive (e.g., 3D computer generated; a physical remote place). Z8 0

The present experiment was designed to determine whether individual variation in neurobiological mechanisms associated with Substance abuse risk moderated effects of a brief preventive intervention oil social competency skills. This study was conducted in collaboration with the ongoing preventive intervention study at Johns Hopkins University Prevention Intervention Research Center (JHU PIRC) within the Baltimore City Public Schools. A subsample (N = 120) of male 9th grade students was recruited from the larger JHU study population. Approximately half of the participants had a current or lifetime diagnosis of CD while the other half had no diagnosis of CD or other reported problem behaviors. Measures of executive cognitive function (ECF), emotional perception and intelligence were administered. In a later session, participants were randomly assigned to either an experimental or control group. The experimental group underwent a facilitated session using excerpted materials from a model preventive intervention, Positive Adolescent Choices Training (PACT), and controls received no intervention. Outcomes (i.e., social competency skills) were assessed using virtual reality vignettes involving behavioral choices as well as three social cognition questionnaires. Poor cognitive and emotional performance and a diagnosis of CD predicted less favorable change in social competency skills in response to the prevention curriculum. This study provides evidence for the moderating effects of neurocognitive and emotional regulatory functions oil ability of urban male Youth to respond to preventive intervention materials. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

The currently available prostate palpation simulators are based on either a physical mock-up or pure virtual simulation. Both cases have their inherent limitations. The former lacks flexibility in presenting abnormalities and scenarios because of the static nature of the mock-up and has usability issues because the prostate model must be replaced in different scenarios. The latter has realism issues, particularly in haptic feedback, because of the very limited performance of haptic hardware and inaccurate haptic simulation. This paper presents a highly flexible and programmable simulator with high haptic fidelity. Our new approach is based on a pneumatic-driven, property-changing, silicone prostate mock-up that can be embedded in a human torso mannequin. The mockup has seven pneumatically controlled, multi-layered bladder cells to mimic the stiffness, size, and location changes of nodules in the prostate. The size is controlled by inflating the bladder with positive pressure in the chamber, and a hard nodule can be generated using the particle jamming technique; the fine sand in the bladder becomes stiff when it is vacuumed. The programmable valves and system identification process enable us to precisely control the size and stiffness, which results in a simulator that can realistically generate many different diseases without replacing anything. The three most common abnormalities in a prostate are selected for demonstration, and multiple progressive stages of each abnormality are carefully designed based on medical data. A human perception experiment is performed by actual medical professionals and confirms that our simulator exhibits higher realism and usability than do the conventional simulators. Z8 0

In this paper the establishment of an automatic laser application device that reproducibly delivers laser stimuli in a safe, controlled, and reliable manner is presented. Nociceptive stimulation is widely used in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments and a number of different methods are employed. One major advantage of laser stimulation as a method to administer painful stimuli is that it selectively activates nociceptors. To avoid damage to the subject's skin, which might occur if the same skin area were stimulated too often, the laser focal spot needs to be repositioned after each stimulus. Here, we describe the design of the mechanical set-up, the functionality, the computation of laser stimulus intensity, the materials used, the monitoring system, and the interface to the control software. Additionally, MR-compatibility and functionality of the device were evaluated and assessed in a 3 T MR scanner. Finally, the reliability and validity of the device were tested and demonstrated. It permits easy and investigator-independent use of laser stimulation in the MR scanner. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

BackgroundComputerized management of medical information and 3D imaging has become the norm in everyday medical practice. Surgeons exploit these emerging technologies and bring information previously confined to the radiology rooms into the operating theatre. The paper reports the authors' experience with integrated stereoscopic 3D-rendered images in the da Vinci surgeon console. MethodsVolume-rendered images were obtained from a standard computed tomography dataset using the OsiriX DICOM workstation. A custom OsiriX plugin was created that permitted the 3D-rendered images to be displayed in the da Vinci surgeon console and to appear stereoscopic. These rendered images were displayed in the robotic console using the TilePro multi-input display. The upper part of the screen shows the real endoscopic surgical field and the bottom shows the stereoscopic 3D-rendered images. These are controlled by a 3D joystick installed on the console, and are updated in real time. ResultsFive patients underwent a robotic augmented reality-enhanced procedure. The surgeon was able to switch between the classical endoscopic view and a combined virtual view during the procedure. Subjectively, the addition of the rendered images was considered to be an undeniable help during the dissection phase. ConclusionWith the rapid evolution of robotics, computer-aided surgery is receiving increasing interest. This paper details the authors' experience with 3D-rendered images projected inside the surgical console. The use of this intra-operative mixed reality technology is considered very useful by the surgeon. It has been shown that the usefulness of this technique is a step toward computer-aided surgery that will progress very quickly over the next few years. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Z8 0

Purpose - Research on prosocial behaviour shows that help-giving differs between the sexes. Gender role theory posits that males specialise in material aid, while females specialize in emotional support. Today, people increasingly help and support each other via online environments. The purpose of this study is to examine whether the genders of avatars used in online interactions influence help-giving behaviour in similar ways as physical sex does in face-to-face situations. Design/methodology/approach - An empirical study was conducted using a unique observational data set from a Japanese massively-multiplayer online game. Instances of help-giving were identified from conversation logs, coded, and analysed statistically to discover differences between male and female avatars and different help types. Findings - Avatar gender is found to influence help-giving in ways that deviate from expected gender roles: female avatars are more likely than males to provide assistance in the form of material support and labour, and no more likely than males to provide emotional support. Female avatars are more likely to give help to male avatars than other females. The results are explained using behavioural confirmation and self-perception theory. Research limitations/implications - Physical sex was not controlled for, but most players were male. The study should be repeated in other environments. Practical implications - The results suggest that designers can prime users towards prosocial behaviours by tuning the available line-up of avatars. Originality/value - The research question and use of observational data are novel. The study is valuable to online educators, companies seeking to reduce customer support costs through peer help, and policymakers dealing with ICTs and societal change.

Purpose The purpose of this study is to identify the essential elements required for innovation in the construction industry. To this end, the authors assessed the innovation at three levels: the firm growth account level, the firm behaviour level and the level of the firm's experts. The factors influencing innovation at each level were identified and synthesised into guiding strategies for innovation. Design/methodology/approach Three methods were combined to develop a mode of thinking for innovation. First, at the semi-macro level, the authors identified the factors that influence the total factor productivity (TFP) by regressing the TFP across firms of the construction industry on a variety of extrinsic factors. Second, at the firm level, the authors extracted actual innovative firms from a large amount of public procurement individual data. The authors analysed the behaviours of these innovative firms. Third, the authors conducted a survey of expert-level personnel. In addition, a text analysis was performed to determine what was perceived by experts as a factor that leads to innovation. Findings The authors analysed the TFP, the behaviour of innovative firms and the perception issues between industry experts and stakeholders regarding innovation. As a result, two factors were identified. The first factor was the expectation of a positive solution to the problem through monopoly profits, future benefits and increased efficiency. The second factor was peer pressure from other organisations of a similar nature, peer pressure from users and technical information, as well as competitive conditions, e.g. recent environmental growth, including relevant innovations. Practical implications In the context of innovation, static and dynamic thinking were important requirements. Static concepts were based on the accumulation of knowledge, such as patents and technological progress. Dynamic thinking involved a future outlook, including a competitive environment as a necessary condition. Actual technological innovation was driven by incentives and expectations. Social implications According to the results of this study, the authors make the following recommendations for enhancing the construction-industry innovation in Japan: do not rely on a patent policy to drive innovation, create an environment that encourages competition and develop an ongoing initiative that encourages and rewards innovation. Originality/value This study was novel, in that the nature of innovation was investigated at three levels: the TFP, firm behaviour and expert perceptions. The identification and extraction of the two resulting points - statically necessary and dynamically necessary elements - was a significant contribution of the study.

Insufficient force feedback and collision warning of teleoperation surgical tools increase the risk of endovascular catheterization. This paper proposed a novel master haptic interface that takes advantage of a surgeon's natural manipulation skills obtained through experience, as well as generates collision warning with haptic cues to ensure safe operation. Moreover, it can eliminate the influence of external friction on the haptic force. Aiming at the Bingham model of the damper with the longest research time and the most widely used, a Simulink mechanical simulation model was built. The perception power provided by the tactile feedback device at the main end of the vascular interventional surgery robot was simulated and related mechanics tests were carried out. The results show that the designed tactile feedback device can provide a tactile force for the surgeons during the operation. It verifies the mechanical properties of the MR fluid damper for vascular interventional surgery. The device can give surgeons real haptic feedback during vascular interventional surgery to distinguish whether the catheter tip collides with blood vessels or not by collision warning with haptic cues, thus achieving the goal of safe operation.

BackgroundThis paper examines the use of augmented reality (AR) as a concept-association tool in schools, with the aim of enhancing primary school students' learning outcomes and engagement. Conflicting findings exist in previous studies regarding the cognitive load of AR-enriched learning, with some reporting reduced load and others indicating increased demand and poorer performance. Understanding these implications is essential for effectively leveraging AR in education. The study offers a fresh perspective on the potential of AR technology in improving educational experiences.ObjectivesThe primary goal of this research was to evaluate the effectiveness of an AR-assisted concept-association strategy for improving essential knowledge acquisition and skills outcomes, increasing cognitive load, and increasing self-efficacy and learning motivation among primary school students.MethodsA quasi-experimental design with a control group was employed to investigate the effectiveness of the intervention.Results and ConclusionsThe results demonstrate that the implementation of the AR-assisted concept-association strategy effectively enhanced essential knowledge acquisition and skills outcomes, increased cognitive load, and increased self-efficacy and learning motivation among primary school students. These findings highlight the potential of AR technology to improve the learning experience and engagement of primary school students. The study contributes to the existing literature on the effectiveness of AR technology in education, suggesting future research directions. Ultimately, it offers a practical solution for improving the learning experience by presenting a new approach for teaching using AR technology. What is currently known about this topic Augmented reality (AR) technology has been increasingly explored in educational settings. Previous research has shown that AR can enhance learning outcomes and engagement among students. AR applications have the potential to serve as concept-association tools to improve the learning experience.What this paper adds This paper investigates the effectiveness of using an AR application as a mobile concept-association tool in school settings. The study demonstrates that the AR-assisted concept-association strategy effectively enhances knowledge acquisition, skills outcomes, cognitive load, self-efficacy, and learning motivation among primary school students. The findings highlight the potential of AR technology in improving learning experiences and engagement for primary school students. The study offers practical implications for integrating AR technology into educational settings, and suggests avenues for future research in this area.Implications for practice and/or policy Incorporating AR applications as concept-association tools can enhance learning outcomes and engagement in primary school settings. AR technology can be used to increase cognitive load, and to increase self-efficacy and motivation among students. Educators and policymakers should consider integrating AR technology into teaching practices to improve the overall learning experience. Future research and exploration should be conducted to understand the full potential and limitations of AR technology in education.

Objective: Precise minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has significant advantages over traditional open surgery in clinic. Although pre-/intraoperative diagnosis images can provide necessary guidance for therapy, hand-eye discoordination occurs when guidance information is displayed away from the surgical area. In this study, we introduce a real three-dimensional (3-D) see-through guidance system for precision surgery. Methods: To address the resolution and viewing angle limitation as well as the accuracy degradation problems of autostereoscopic 3-D display, we design a high quality and high accuracy 3-D integral videography (IV) medical image display method. Furthermore, a novel see-through microscopic device is proposed to assist surgeons with the superimposition of real 3-D guidance onto the surgical target is magnified by an optical visual magnifier module. Results: Spatial resolutions of 3-D IV image in different depths have been increased 50%similar to 70%, viewing angles of different image sizes have been increased 9%similar to 19% compared with conventional IV display methods. Average accuracy of real 3-D guidance superimposed on surgical target was 0.93 mm +/- 0.41 mm. Preclinical studies demonstrated that our system could provide real 3-D perception of anatomic structures inside the patient's body. Conclusion: The system showed potential clinical feasibility to provide intuitive and accurate in situ see-through guidance for microsurgery without restriction on observers' viewing position. Significance: Our system can effectively improve the precision and reliability of surgical guidance. It will have wider applicability in surgical planning, microscopy, and other fields.

Head-mounted displays (HMDs) virtually augment the visual world to aid visual task completion. Three types of HMDs were compared [look around (LA); optical see-through with organic light emitting diodes and virtual retinal display] to determine whether LA, leaving the observer functionally monocular, is inferior. Response times and error rates were determined for a combined visual search and Go-NoGo task. The costs of switching between displays were assessed separately. Finally, HMD effects on basic visual functions were quantified. Effects of HMDs on visual search and Go-NoGo task were small, but for LA display-switching costs for the Go-NoGo-task the effects were pronounced. Basic visual functions were most affected for LA (reduced visual acuity and visual field sensitivity, inaccurate vergence movements and absent stereo-vision). LA involved comparatively high switching costs for the Go-NoGo task, which might indicate reduced processing of external control cues. Reduced basic visual functions are a likely cause of this effect. Practitioner Summary: We assessed how basic visual functions are affected in different head-mounted displays (HMDs) and how this relates to their efficiency in reality augmentation. In conclusion, look-around HMDs are an economical alternative to optical-see-through HMDs, if unpredictable external events are kept to a minimum.

Current surgical augmented reality (AR) systems typically employ an on-demand display behavior, where the surgeon can toggle the AR ON or OFF using a switch. The need to be able to turn the AR OFF is in part due to the obstructing nature of AR overlays, potentially hiding important information from the surgeon in order to provide see-through vision. This on-demand paradigm is inefficient as the surgeon is always in one of two sub-optimal states: either they do not benefit at all from the image guidance (AR OFF) or the field of view is partially obstructed (AR ON). Additionally, frequent toggling between the two views during the operation can be disruptive for the surgeon. This letter presents a novel approach to automatically adapt the AR display view based on the context of the surgical scene. Using gaze tracking in conjunction with information from the surgical instruments and the registered anatomy, a multi Gaussian process model can be trained to infer the desired AR display view at any point during the procedure. Furthermore, a new AR display view is introduced in this model, taking advantage of the context information to only display a partial view of the AR when relevant. To validate the presented approach, a detailed simulation of a neurosurgical tumor contour marking task is designed. A study conducted with 15 participants demonstrates the usefulness of the proposed approach, showing a statistically significant mean reduction of 48% in the average time necessary for the detection of simulated bleeding, as well as statistically significant improvements in total task time.

In orthopedic and trauma surgery, AR technology can support surgeons in the challenging task of understanding the spatial relationships between the anatomy, the implants and their tools. In this context, we propose a novel augmented visualization of the surgical scene that mixes intelligently the different sources of information provided by a mobile C-arm combined with a Kinect RGB-Depth sensor. Therefore, we introduce a learning-based paradigm that aims at (1) identifying the relevant objects or anatomy in both Kinect and X-ray data, and (2) creating an object-specific pixel-wise alpha map that permits relevance-based fusion of the video and the X-ray images within one single view. In 12 simulated surgeries, we show very promising results aiming at providing for surgeons a better surgical scene understanding as well as an improved depth perception. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Objectives: The aim of this study was to assess three-dimensional (3D) spatial hearing abilities in reaching space of children and adolescents fitted with bilateral cochlear implants (BCI). The study also investigated the impact of spontaneous head movements on sound localization abilities. Design: BCI children (N = 18, aged between 8 and 17) and age-matched normal-hearing (NH) controls (N = 18) took part in the study. Tests were performed using immersive virtual reality equipment that allowed control over visual information and initial eye position, as well as real-time 3D motion tracking of head and hand position with subcentimeter accuracy. The experiment exploited these technical features to achieve trial-by-trial exact positioning in head-centered coordinates of a single loudspeaker used for real, near-field sound delivery, which was reproducible across trials and participants. Using this novel approach, broadband sounds were delivered at different azimuths within the participants' arm length, in front and back space, at two different distances from their heads. Continuous head-monitoring allowed us to compare two listening conditions: "head immobile" (no head movements allowed) and "head moving" (spontaneous head movements allowed). Sound localization performance was assessed by computing the mean 3D error (i.e. the difference in space between the X-Y-Z position of the loudspeaker and the participant's final hand position used to indicate the localization of the sound's source), as well as the percentage of front-back and left-right confusions in azimuth, and the discriminability between two nearby distances. Several clinical factors (i.e. age at test, interimplant interval, and duration of binaural experience) were also correlated with the mean 3D error. Finally, the Speech Spatial and Qualities of Hearing Scale was administered to BCI participants and their parents. Results: Although BCI participants distinguished well between left and right sound sources, near-field spatial hearing remained challenging, particularly under the " head immobile" condition. Without visual priors of the sound position, response accuracy was lower than that of their NH peers, as evidenced by the mean 3D error (BCI: 55 cm, NH: 24 cm, p = 0.008). The BCI group mainly pointed along the interaural axis, corresponding to the position of their CI microphones. This led to important front-back confusions (44.6%). Distance discrimination also remained challenging for BCI users, mostly due to sound compression applied by their processor. Notably, BCI users benefitted from head movements under the "head moving" condition, with a significant decrease of the 3D error when pointing to front targets (p < 0.001). Interimplant interval was correlated with 3D error (p < 0.001), whereas no correlation with self-assessment of spatial hearing difficulties emerged (p = 0.9). Conclusions: In reaching space, BCI children and adolescents are able to extract enough auditory cues to discriminate sound side. However, without any visual cues or spontaneous head movements during sound emission, their localization abilities are substantially impaired for front-back and distance discrimination. Exploring the environment with head movements was a valuable strategy for improving sound localization within individuals with different clinical backgrounds. These novel findings could prompt new perspectives to better understand sound localization maturation in BCI children, and more broadly in patients with hearing loss. Z8 1

study question: Is it possible to evaluate first trimester brain ventricle development in human pregnancies using an innovative virtual reality ( VR) application and to analyze the relation of the embryonic volume ( EV) and brain ventricle fluid volume ( BVFV) with gestational age ( GA), crown-rump length ( CRL) and the Carnegie stage? summary answer: Volumetry and staging of the human embryo using a VR application make it possible to obtain unique information about in-vivo embryonic normal and abnormal development and about the sizes of the ventricles and body. what is known already: Human brain development is complex and has a rapidly changing anatomy during the first trimester of pregnancy. New insights will enable early detection of cerebral pathology. study design, size, duration: In a prospective cohort study, we weekly performed three-dimensional ( 3D) ultrasound examinations in 112 uncomplicated pregnancies between 6 + 0 and 12 + 6 weeks GA. materials, setting, methods: The examinations resulted in 696 3D ultrasound scans that were transferred to the I-Space VR system and analyzed using V-Scope volume rendering software. V-Scope is used to create a 'hologram' of the ultrasound image and allows depth perception and interaction with the rendered objects. The CRL measurements were performed with a tracing tool, and the volume measurements were automatically performed with a segmentation algorithm. The embryos were staged according to the internal and external characteristics of the Carnegie staging system. All longitudinal outcomes were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA. main results and the role of chance: CRL could be measured in 91% of the datasets and ranged from 2.5 to 79.0 mm. EV could be measured in 66% of the datasets and ranged from 2.4 to 23 812.0 mm3, whereas the BVFV could be measured in 38% of the datasets and ranged from 10.4 to 226.3 mm3. Finally, in 74% of the datasets, the embryos were staged according to the Carnegie criteria, starting as early as stage 12. Reference charts of volumes versus GA, CRL and stage were constructed. There was no significant relationship between the CRL or EV and the birthweight. limitations, reasons for cautions: The low success rate is a limitation of this study that can be explained mainly by non-targeted scanning of the embryonic head. wider implications of the findings: The I-Space VR system and the V-Scope software enable automatic EV and BVFV measurements and 3D observations of embryonic development in the first trimester. This allows in-vivo staging of human embryos based on both internal and external morphological characteristics.

Backround: The aim of this study was to establish content, face, concurrent, and the first step of construct validity of a new simulator, the SIMENDO, in order to determine its usefulness for training basic endoscopic skills. Methods: The validation started with an explanation of the goals, content, and features of the simulator (content validity). Then, participants from eight different medical centers consisting of experts (>= 100 laparoscopic procedures performed) and surgical trainees (< 100) were informed of the goals and received a "hands-on tour" of the virtual reality (VR) trainer. Subsequently, they were asked to answer 28 structured questions about the simulator (face validity). Ratings were scored on a scale from 1 (very bad/useless) to 5 (excellent/very useful). Additional comments could be given as well. Furthermore, two experiments were conducted. In experiment 1, aimed at establishing concurrent validity, the training effect of a single-handed hand-eye coordination task in the simulator was compared with a similar task in a conventional box trainer and with the performance of a control group that received no training. In experiment 2 (first step of construct validity), the total score of task time, collisions, and path length of three consecutive runs in the simulator was compared between experts (> 100 endoscopic procedures) and novices (no experience). Results: A total of 75 participants (36 expert surgeons and 39 surgical trainees) filled out the questionnaire. Usefulness of tasks, features, and movement realism were scored between a mean value of 3.3 for depth perception and 4.3 for appreciation of training with the instrument. There were no significant differences between the mean values of the scores given by the experts and surgical trainees. In response to statements, 81% considered this VR trainer generally useful for training endoscopic techniques to residents, and 83% agreed that the simulator was useful to train hand-eye coordination. In experiment 1, the training effect for the single-handed task showed no significant difference between the conventional trainer and the VR simulator (concurrent validity). In experiment 2, experts scored significantly better than novices on all parameters used (construct validity). Conclusion: Content, face, and concurrent validity of the SIMENDO is established. The simulator is considered useful for training eye-hand coordination for endoscopic surgery. The evaluated task could discriminate between the skills of experienced surgeons and novices, giving the first indication of construct validity.

Several experiments were carried out to compare the impacts of using a two dimensional (2D) plan view or a three dimensional (3D) perspective view in discrete event simulation visual displays. The experiments measured the performance of participants in spotting errors, describing the model, and suggesting improvements to the system. The participants using the 3D perspective display performed much better in spotting errors, taking on average about one third of the time of participants observing the 2D display. They also did much better in describing the model. There was no significant difference in suggesting improvements although this may have been because this task was easy. Most participants preferred the 3D perspective view when asked to compare the displays. The experiments indicate that the detailed design of the visual display may have a considerable effect on some of the tasks in a simulation project and hence on whether the overall project is successful. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Previous studies on modulation of anxiety, pain and unpleasantness have documented a positive effect of video glasses (I-Glasses(TM), Virtual i-O(TM), Seattle, USA) on the perceived pain and unpleasantness under different laboratory and clinical conditions. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether distraction induced by video glasses also had an effect on the perceived intensity of pain and unpleasantness during dental treatment. Pain and unpleasantness was evoked by the preparation (drilling) of a minor dental cavity (class I). Twenty-three patients (17 female and six male, age range 20-49 years) with a need for an occlusal dental restoration in two homologous teeth participated in the study, In this split-mouth design, the patient received the dental treatment wearing 3D video glasses and without video glasses (control situation) in a randomized order. The tooth cavities were prepared in accordance with conventional techniques after mounting the video glasses. The patient rated the intensity of pain and unpleasantness on 100 mm visual analogue scales (VASs) after preparation of the first cavity; immediately after, the opposite tooth was prepared and again the volunteer rated the intensity of pain and unpleasantness. The cavities were then filled using a routine composite technique. Eventually, the patient indicated whether s/he would prefer video glasses or not if s/he were to have another filling and what the expectations of the effect had been. Differences in VAS ratings in the video and control situation were tested by Student's t-test. There was no statistically significant effect on the perceived pain (p = 0.90) or unpleasantness (p = 0.39), but the majority (74%) of the patients would still prefer to wear video glasses if they were to have another dental filling, and 73% had expected a positive effect of the video glasses. These findings suggest that perceived intensity of dental pain is resistant to a simple distraction technique. (C) 2001 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.

This study was designed to differentiate between two models of motor lateralization: "feedback corrections" and dynamic dominance. Whereas the feedback correction hypothesis suggests that handedness reflects a dominant hemisphere advantage for visual-mediated correction processes, dynamic dominance proposes that each hemisphere has become specialized for distinct aspects of control. This model suggests that the dominant hemisphere is specialized for controlling task dynamics, as required for coordinating efficient trajectories, and the nondominant hemisphere is specialized for controlling limb impedance, as required for maintaining stable postures. To differentiate between these two models, we examined whether visuomotor corrections are mediated differently for the nondominant and dominant arms. Participants performed targeted reaches in a virtual reality environment in which visuomotor rotations occurred in two directions that elicited corrections with different coordination requirements. The feedback correction model predicts a dominant arm advantage for the timing and accuracy of corrections in both directions. Dynamic dominance predicts that correction timing and accuracy will be similar for both arms, but that interlimb differences in the quality of corrections will depend on the coordination requirements, and thus, direction of corrections. Our results indicated that correction time and accuracy did not depend on arm. However, correction quality, as reflected by trajectory curvature, depended on both arm and rotation direction. Nondominant trajectories were systematically more curvilinear than dominant trajectories for corrections with the highest coordination requirement. These results support the dynamic dominance hypothesis.

Background: The ability to remember to complete future intentions, prospective memory, often begins to fail in old age. The aim of the present study was to examine the sensitivity of a computer-based procedure using naturalistic stimuli to age-related increases in forgetting under conditions of high (increased visual and auditory noise) or low distraction. Methods: Participants were tested in a virtual shopping precinct constructed from linked photographs, sounds, and video segments. Groups of 32 older and younger persons completed two concurrent memory tasks while moving along the street. In one task, participants were given errands to complete with an accessible checklist, in the other, they were required to remember to respond to three different targets that appeared repeatedly. Results: The results confirmed previous findings that older adults have difficulty remembering future intentions, even on a self-paced task using naturalistic stimuli, and showed that this was accentuated in noisy environments. Conclusions: Older persons have particular difficulty remembering in noisy environments, and results from testing in the clinic may underestimate the practical memory problems experienced by older adults with mild cognitive impairments. The findings provide encouragement for the construction of computer-generated environments to measure functional deficits in cognition.

Sustained attention is essential in the daily human activities of perception, manipulation, and locomotion. An improvement in sustained attention exhibits potential impacts in several scenarios, including the treatment of mental disorders, such as the attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and the training of certain professionals, such as aircraft pilots, who work under environments with heavy cognitive loads. In this study, we review the haptics-mediated sustained attention-training approaches from the afferent and efferent perspectives based on the bidirectional information flow in the haptic channel. Subsequently, the feasibility of modulating and enhancing attention via the haptic channel is analyzed based on the studies that have investigated the correlation between attention and the afferent/efferent pathways of the haptic channel. We identify several research questions, including how to design diverse haptic training tasks via the afferent and/or efferent pathways and which adaptive strategies can be used to adjust the difficulty levels of haptic training tasks to ensure user engagement. Furthermore, we examine the behavioral and biological evidence that can be used to validate the training efficacy, the manner in which the neural mechanisms underlying the attention-enhancing process can be understood, and the effective variables that can be attributed to the near- and far-transfer effects. In addition, we discuss the difficulties associated with the development of novel haptic technologies. In this study, we intend to investigate the potential impact of haptic stimuli on neuroplasticity and to promote the study of haptics-mediated sustained attention training. Z8 0

Significance As the entrance technology of metaverse, augmented reality (AR) is highly likely to become the next generation computing platform. Near-eye display is the core foundation for the development and application of AR technology and is the direct medium for people to receive virtual information and combine reality. Near-eye display optical systems are the core component of AR, and the maturity of the display module is part of AR technology popularization. The vergence-accommodation conflict (VAC) of near-eye display systems is a key challenge restricting the large-scale AR application. Human beings obtain 80% of external information by human eye vision. To obtain the 3D display effect, near-eye display optical systems will simulate the real scenes through both eyes, displaying the independent pictures of the two eyes with certain parallax to make the brain perceive the 3D display effect. Meanwhile, the eye lens is always focused on the virtual image plane of the micro-display of the optical system, which indicates the fixed eye accommodation distance. Due to the setting of the left and right eye images with parallax, the brain will perceive the distance of the 3D image objects, and then the convergence distance of human eyes will change with the built-in image source. As a result, a mismatch is caused between the convergence distance and the accommodation distance, which is a VAC problem. When the user is in this state for a long time, visual fatigue, dizziness, and vomiting will occur. The VAC problem in the near-eye display optical system causes the display scene to deviate from people's perception in the real world, which brings bad user experience and is a major challenge to be solved for the long-term utilization and popularization of AR devices. Progress VAC is an insurmountable technical challenge in the development of AR display technology. We classify its solutions to provide references for selecting solutions suitable for different technical development needs, and review current VAC solutions, classifying them as solutions without depth information, with partial depth information, and with complete depth information (Fig. 2). In the VAC solutions without depth information, we mainly introduce Maxwellian display technology, which takes the image as a single point beam through the eye lens photocentric position and subsequently images it directly onto the retina. Thus, the limitation that the eye lens must be forced to focus can be addressed, which means the human eye lens can observe the image in different diopter states and the VAC problem can be overcome. Lin et al. implemented a MEMS-based Maxwellian display system to achieve a 33 degrees x 22 degrees display field of view with an exit pupil distance of 10 mm, converging the imaging beam into a 5 mu m spot with the best imaging quality when the spot is at the photocentric position of the human eyes. The Maxwellian technique requires the converging light to form a beam point that matches the pupil position, resulting in the natural limitation and drawback of this solution in the exit pupil range and needs to be matched with a corresponding pupil extension technique. In the VAC solutions with partial depth information, we mainly introduce multi-focal plane display technology (physical multi-focal plane and virtual multi-focal plane) and adjustable focus display technology. Cheng et al. equipped two microdisplays to implement a two-focal plane AR near-eye display module by spatial multiplexing [Fig. 6(c)]. The display solution achieves a 40 degrees display field of view, an exit pupil distance of 20 mm, and an eyebox aperture of 6 mm, enabling two different focal planes at 1.25 m and 5 m distances. In the VAC solutions with complete depth information, we introduce integrated imaging and computational holography solution. Hua et al. employed an integrated imaging unit as a stereo microdisplay image source combined with a free-form prism to form an AR near-eye display module with depth information, achieving a 33.4 degrees display field of view, an exit pupil distance of 19 mm, and an eyebox aperture of 6.5 mm [Fig. 9(a)]. Zhang et al. achieved complex amplitude wavefront reconstruction of image information by cascading amplitude holograms to provide complete depth information for AR near-eye display. Finally, the undesirable effects of VAC are eliminated to achieve a 4.8 degrees display field of view (9.4x secondary magnification) with an exit pupil distance of 10 mm. Conclusions and Prospects We present a systematic review of VAC solutions in AR near-eye display optical systems. Meanwhile, the focus is on the basic principles of the VAC problem and the technical features, implementation methods, and representative literature of current near-eye display optical solutions. The VAC problem is contrary to the physiological characteristics of human eyes in daily observation and is an inevitable difficulty for AR to enhance viewing comfort. In current VAC solutions, Maxwellian near-eye display, variable focus, and multi-focal plane near-eye display solutions have relative advantages in design and image quality.

Users of optical see-through head-mounted displays (OHMD) perceive color as a blend of the display color and the background. Color-blending is a major usability challenge as it leads to loss of color encodings and poor text legibility. Color correction aims at mitigating color blending by producing an alternative color which, when blended with the background, more closely approaches the color originally intended. To date, approaches to color correction do not yield optimal results or do not work in real-time. This paper makes two contributions. First, we present QuickCorrection, a realtime color correction algorithm based on display profiles. We describe the algorithm, measure its accuracy and analyze two implementations for the OpenGL graphics pipeline. Second, we present SmartColor, a middleware for color management of user-interface components in OHMD. SmartColor uses color correction to provide three management strategies: correction, contrast, and show-up-on-contrast. Correction determines the alternate color which best preserves the original color. Contrast determines the color which best warranties text legibility while preserving as much of the original hue. Show-up-on-contrast makes a component visible when a related component does not have enough contrast to be legible. We describe the SmartColor's architecture and illustrate the color strategies for various types of display content.

Excessive daytime somnolence (EDS) is defined as the inability to stay awake in daily life activities. Several scales have been used to diagnose excessive daytime sleepiness, the most widely used being the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). Sleep disorders and EDS are very common in the general population. It is therefore important to be able to screen patients for this symptom in order to obtain an accurate diagnosis of sleep disorders. Embodied Conversational Agents (ECA) have been used in the field of affective computing and human interactions but up to now no software has been specifically designed to investigate sleep disorders. We created an ECA able to conduct an interview based on the ESS and compared it to an interview conducted by a sleep specialist. We recruited 32 consecutive patients and a group of 30 healthy volunteers free of any sleep complaints. The ESS is a self-administered questionnaire that asks the subject to rate (with a pen and paper paradigm) his or her probability of falling asleep. For the purpose of our study, the ECA or real-doctor questionnaire was modified as follows: Instead of the "I'' formulate, questions were asked as "Do you.'' Our software is based on a common 3D game engine and several commercial software libraries. It can run on standard and affordable hardware products. The sensitivity and specificity of the interview conducted by the ECA were measured. The best results (sensibility and specificity >98%) were obtained to discriminate the sleepiest patients (ESS >= 16) but very good scores (sensibility and specificity > 80%) were also obtained for alert subjects (ESS< 8). ESS scores obtained in the interview conducted by the physician were significantly correlated with ESS scores obtained in the interview the ECA conducted. Most of the subjects had a positive perception of the virtual physician and considered the interview with the ECA as a good experience. Sixty-five percent of the participants felt that the virtual doctor could significantly help real physicians. Our results show that a virtual physician can conduct a very simple interview to evaluate EDS with very similar results to those obtained by a questionnaire administered by a real physician. The expected massive increase in sleep complaints in the near future likely means that more and more physicians will be looking for computerized systems to help them to diagnose their patients.

Sensing and remembering features in visual scenes are conditioned by visual attention and methods to guide it. This should be relevant in terms of product placement, which has become an important part of incorporating brands into different mass media formats with a commercial purpose. The approach can be challenging in 360 degrees video, where an omnidirectional view enables consumers to choose different viewing perspectives, which may result in overlooking the brands. Accordingly, attention guidance methods should be applied. This study is the first to explore diegetic guidance methods as the only appropriate guiding method for an unobtrusive and unconscious nature of product placement. To test the effectiveness of three different diegetic guiding methods, a between-subject design was employed, where the participants were assigned randomly to one of four videos with the same scene but different guiding methods. The findings show and explain the discrepancy with studies on guiding attention in other contexts, as there were no significant differences between the guiding cues according to brand recall and brand recognition. The results also indicate a significant influence of brand familiarity on brand recall in 360 degrees video. The article concludes by providing limitations, future research directions, and recommendations for audiovisual policy. Z8 0

Adolescents in Hong Kong have become more liberal and receptive towards sex in recent decades. Research findings indicated an increase in the rate of premarital sex among Hong Kong adolescents. They also held a more permissive attitude towards premarital sex than in the past. Sex education, however, is not always well organised and delivered in schools. A recent survey indicated that Hong Kong teachers found themselves not well equipped to teach the sex education and lacked relevant learning and teaching resources. Current educational resources for sex education are mainly designed to be used in classroom. They are typically composed of presentation slides and lesson plans of group based activities. As discussion on sex is still taboo in Chinese society, self-learning resources can supplement classroom teaching. Unfortunately they are rarely offered online or tailored for mobile access. Available online resources are mostly text-based and are unattractive to the most vulnerable adolescent group. This project aims to address this gap by developing an interactive game playable on Facebook, iPad and the web to educate and equip young adolescents with reliable knowledge and positive attitudes towards sex and relationship and life skills necessary for making wise decisions regarding love and sex in a fun way. The game, titled Making Smart Choices, consists of five mini-games, adopting a Chinese user interface, offering different scenarios where players exact their decisions in their chosen virtual characters and learn in the process. The mini-games aim to help young adolescents: to gain better self-understanding for establishing a healthy love relationship; to learn to set and maintain intimate boundaries; to understand about sexual impulse and considerations in deciding whether to have sex or not; to acquire safer sex knowledge including awareness of selfprotection, contraceptives, prevention of sexually transmissible diseases, and emergency contraception; and to be aware of available options and support services in case of unplanned pregnancies. To evaluate the effectiveness and acceptance of the game among young adolescents, a series of workshops and game sessions were conducted for more than 1,100 junior students ( in Secondary 1 to Secondary 3) in six co-ed secondary schools. Students' knowledge about safer sex was collected before and after playing the game. Participants were also asked to complete a questionnaire regarding their perception of the value of the game and whether they found the game interesting and user-friendly. Focus group interviews were arranged with selected students in order to gather their detailed feedback. The collected data were analysed using SPSS and the results showed that after playing the game, students' sex knowledge improved with a high medium effect size. The improvement was found in every junior secondary level. The survey respondents perceived that the game had helped them enhance their critical thinking, decision-making and ability to seek help regarding matters related to love and sexuality in addition to knowledge and proper attitudes towards relationship and sex. They were mostly receptive to the game, finding it fun to play with and describing the content as "interesting", "interactive", "informative", "close to reality" and "applicable".

Proton-Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) is a non-invasive brain imaging technique used to measure the concentration of different neurochemicals. "Single-voxel " MRS data is typically acquired across several minutes, before individual transients are averaged through time to give a measurement of neurochemical concentrations. However, this approach is not sensitive to more rapid temporal dynamics of neurochemicals, including those that reflect functional changes in neural computation relevant to perception, cognition, motor control and ultimately behaviour. In this review we discuss recent advances in functional MRS (fMRS) that now allow us to obtain event-related measures of neurochemicals. Event-related fMRS involves presenting different experimental conditions as a series of trials that are intermixed. Critically, this approach allows spectra to be acquired at a time resolution in the order of seconds. Here we provide a comprehensive user guide for event-related task designs, choice of MRS sequence, analysis pipelines, and appropriate interpretation of event-related fMRS data. We raise various technical considerations by examining protocols used to quantify dynamic changes in GABA, the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. Overall, we propose that although more data is needed, event-related fMRS can be used to measure dynamic changes in neurochemicals at a temporal resolution relevant to computations that support human cognition and behaviour.

Purpose. This study evaluated the effects of short term and extended viewing of virtual imagery using the Binocular Viewer (new generation bi-ocular viewer) on the visual system of children, and compared these effects with that of viewing a high definition television (HDTV) display. Methods. Sixty children aged 5 to 16 years viewed 30 min of virtual imagery using the Binocular Viewer and a HDTV display on two occasions. Sixteen subjects, aged 13 to 16 years, completed a third session of extended viewing (80 min) with the Binocular Viewer. Oculomotor function and symptoms were assessed previewing, immediately postviewing, and 10 min postviewing. Results. Thirty minutes of Binocular Viewer use resulted in symptom increases (p < 0.05) immediately postviewing ("feeling tired," "feeling sleepy," "difficulty concentrating," and "sore/aching eyes") however most symptoms had dissipated by 10-min postviewing. There were no significant symptom differences between viewing with the Binocular Viewer and the HDTV display at either time point. An increase in symptoms (p < 0.05) immediately postviewing was recorded after 80 min of Binocular Viewer use ("feeling tired," "feeling bored," "feeling sleepy," and "tired eyes"), however only "feeling tired" and "feeling bored" remained significantly increased (p < 0.05) 10-min postviewing. Near unaided visual acuity demonstrated a significant and consistent reduction immediately (p < 0.01) and at 10 min (p < 0.05) following 30 min of Binocular Viewer use and immediately following 80 min of use (p < 0.01). Near unaided VA was also significantly reduced (p < 0.01) immediately after 30 min of HDTV display use. Conclusions. Virtual imagery viewing with the Binocular Viewer in children aged 5 to 16 years had few additional adverse effects when compared to viewing a more conventional HDTV display. The Binocular Viewer was comfortable to wear for up to 80 min of viewing. The consistent reduction in near vision for both viewing durations with the Binocular Viewer requires further investigation. (Optom Vis Sci 2009;86:845-856)

We examine the subjective risks of driving behavior using a controlled virtual reality experiment. Use of a driving simulator allows us to observe choices over risky alternatives that are presented to the individual in a naturalistic manner, with many of the cues one would find in the field. However, the use of a simulator allows us the type of controls one expects from a laboratory environment. The subject was tasked with making a left-hand turn into incoming traffic, and the experimenter controlled the headways of oncoming traffic. Subjects were rewarded for making a successful turn, and lost income if they crashed. The experimental design provided opportunities for subjects to develop subjective beliefs about when it would be safe to turn, and it also elicited their attitudes towards risk. A simple structural model explains behavior, and showed evidence of heterogeneity in both the subjective beliefs that subjects formed and their risk attitudes. We find that subjective beliefs change with experience in the task and the driver's skill. A significant difference was observed in the perceived probability to successfully turn among the inexperienced drivers who did and did not crash even though there was no significant difference in drivers' risk attitudes among the two groups. We use experimental economics to design controlled, incentive compatible tasks that provide an opportunity to evaluate the impact on driver safety of subject's subjective beliefs about when it would be safe to turn as well as their attitudes towards risk. This method could be used to help insurance companies determine risk premia associated with risk attitudes or beliefs of crashing, to better incentivize safe driving. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Recent methodological advances in fMRI contrast and readout strategies have allowed researchers to approach the mesoscopic spatial regime of cortical layers. This has revolutionized the ability to map cortical information processing within and across brain systems. However, until recently, most layer-fMRI studies have been confined to primary cortices using basic block-design tasks and macro-vascular-contaminated sequence contrasts. To become an established method for user-friendly applicability in neuroscience practice, layer-fMRI acquisition and analysis methods need to be extended to more flexible connectivity-based experiment designs; they must be able to capture subtle changes in brain networks of higher-order cognitive areas, and they should not be spatially biased with unwanted vein signals. In this article, we review the most pressing challenges of layer-dependent fMRI for large-scale neuroscientific applicability and describe recently developed acquisition methodologies that can resolve them. In doing so, we review technical tradeoffs and capabilities of modern MR-sequence approaches to achieve measurements that are free of locally unspecific vein signal, with whole-brain coverage, subsecond sampling, high resolutions, and with a combination of those capabilities. The presented approaches provide whole-brain layer-dependent connectivity data that open a new window to investigate brain network connections. We exemplify this by reviewing a number of candidate tools for connectivity analyses that will allow future studies to address new questions in network neuroscience. The considered network analysis tools include: hierarchy mapping, directional connectomics, source-specific connectivity mapping, and network sub-compartmentalization. We conclude: Whole-brain layer-fMRI without large-vessel contamination is applicable for human neuroscience and opens the door to investigate biological mechanisms behind any number of psychological and psychiatric phenomena, such as selective attention, hallucinations and delusions, and even conscious perception.

PurposeTo estimate the effect of integrating custom-designed hand therapy video games (HTVG) with contralaterally controlled functional electrical stimulation (CCFES) therapy.MethodsFifty-two stroke survivors with chronic (>6 months) upper limb hemiplegia were randomized to 12 weeks of CCFES or CCFES + HTVG. Treatment involved self-administration of technology-mediated therapy at home plus therapist-administered CCFES-assisted task practice in the lab. Pre- and post-treatment assessments were made of hand dexterity, upper limb impairment and activity limitation, and cognitive function.ResultsNo significant between-group differences were found on any outcome measure, and the average magnitudes of improvement within both groups were small. The incidence of technical problems with study devices at home was greater for the CCFES + HTVG group. This negatively affected adherence and may partially explain the absence of effect of HTVG. At end-of-treatment, large majorities of both treatment groups had positive perceptions of treatment efficacy and expressed enthusiasm for the treatments.ConclusionThis study makes an important contribution to the research literature on the importance of environmental factors, concomitant impairments, and technology simplification when designing technology-based therapies intended to be self-administered at home. This study failed to show any added benefit of HTVG to CCFES therapy.Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT03058796).ConclusionThis study makes an important contribution to the research literature on the importance of environmental factors, concomitant impairments, and technology simplification when designing technology-based therapies intended to be self-administered at home. This study failed to show any added benefit of HTVG to CCFES therapy.Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT03058796). Z8 0

Purpose As technology-created gamers' representations, avatars are influential in communication among online gamers. However, there is scant research on how avatars' characteristics impact gamers' friendly behaviour via avatars, i.e., avatar friendliness, and how avatar friendliness is related to online gamer loyalty. The purpose of this paper is to develop a research model grounded in the theory of embodied cognition to examine the impacts of perceived avatar appearance agreeableness, attractiveness and height on avatar friendliness and online gamer loyalty. Design/methodology/approach The authors collect 1,384 responses from online gamers and use structural equation modelling for hypothesis testing. Findings The authors find that perceived avatar appearance agreeableness and attractiveness are positively related to avatar friendliness, while perceived avatar height is negatively related to avatar friendliness. Avatar friendliness, in turn, is positively related to online gamer loyalty. Research limitations/implications This study assessed gamers' perceptions using a cross-sectional design. Future works could use a big data approach to collect behavioural and longitudinal data. Moreover, future works could measure avatar height using pixels. Originality/value The authors contribute to the e-commerce literature by inventing the new constructs of perceived avatar appearance agreeableness and avatar friendliness, and conducting the first study of using avatar friendliness to explain the impacts of the three avatar characteristics on online gamer loyalty. The findings also provide novel insights for e-commerce managers to effectively build a loyal gamer base.

The digital/virtual and technological developments that emerged in the 21st century have led to significant multidimensional changes in the lives of individuals and societies. This process has also manifested itself as a necessary result of transferring and articulating daily life to the virtual universe in a multidimensional way. In other words, virtual life's multidimensional siege and hegemony constructs itself as an unshakable reality in individual and social life. In other words, virtual life's multidimensional siege and hegemony create itself an unshakable reality in personal and social life. This virtual reality seems to have diversified and enriched over time, especially with the content and fiction of the Metaverse. Reality (AR: Augmented Reality) is a digital platform that allows its users to create virtual worlds with an impressive and attractive three-dimensional interface and avatars. Metaverse, in which almost every area of daily life is hypothetically fictionalized through avatars, is, in a sense a parallel universe virtualization focused on game/entertainment and therefore pleasure, image and consumption. In this context, what are Metaverse's religious and social manifestations, where many daily activities or activities are carried out? Engages in a critical discussion of its problems. Qualitative methods and documentation techniques were preferred in the study. Metaverse reflects or visualizes content based on the relationship between religion and society is very important for the discipline of the sociology of religion. Examining the religion-society relationship in the conception of the metaverse from the perspective of the Sociology of Religion now expresses a necessity rather than a necessity. It can be said that understanding and analyzing the point reached by the rapidly changing/transforming religion and social relations today through the socio-religious content and orientations of the Metaverse will meet a need in the sociology of religion. In this respect, the sociology of religion science needs to focus and concentrate on research and analysis of the Metaverse. It is almost impossible to consider religion or society completely independent of digital technologies such as Metaverse. On the other hand, when we look at the sociology of religion literature, the inadequacy of the studies carried out in the Metaverse stands out in the first place. On the other hand, diversifying the subjects and courses of the sociology of religion within this framework is a necessary dimension of today's virtual religion and social relations. Thus, it will be easier to understand and make sense of the Metaverse, which has become a subject worthy of research and evaluation by directly entering the field of the sociology of religion. At this point, it is essential to carry out qualified studies that will contribute to the sociology of religion literature to trace the changes that may arise regarding the Metaverse in the context of religion and society. Metaverse is examined, and it is seen that some criticisms have been opened in general. At this point, there is the fictional and perceptual construction of avatar communities and the reproduction of digital religion with different designs. The main determining factor in these productions is the individual's imagination within the digital content framework. In this context, it is recommended to produce the digital fiction and perception of an avatar design that expresses and positions the individual and determines his social status and image in the Metaverse. In this respect, Metaverse draws attention with its different manifestations of "as if" on a perceptual and fictional basis. Unlike the real social order, almost everything is fictionalized as "as if". Metaverse, as an element of relatively capitalist culture, imposes a digital consciousness that suppresses society's religious, moral or human aspects. On the other hand, this consciousness rises only under the guidance of fictional and utopian elements. In this respect, Metaverse tends to corrupt, exploit and exploit by transforming the natural and natural world of man. In this sense, Metaverse corresponds to the understanding of the individual and society, prioritizing a soulless, disembodied, uniform, secular, consumer, and hedonist approach. In this respect, Metaverse presents signs that become meaningless and uncertain in religious and social dimensions. In this context, it is observed that new understandings of society and religion are produced. A three-dimensional segment of digital society and religion productions that is closer to reality at the perceptual level is revealed. At this point, we can discuss a design that can be read as "avatar society" and "avatar religion and piety". In this sense, there are intricate social structures, types of relationships, and religious manifestations that are shaped by the individual's desire and imagination but enabled by content based on digital data. The social and religious manifestations of the Metaverse can be expressed as a tangle of public and unpredictable power relations and interactions that prioritize realizing individual wishes and dreams. This, on the other hand, contains an aspect that is open to dangers, risks, anomalies, deviations, uncertainties, dilemmas, and multidimensional interpretations from social and religious perspectives. When we look at the religious manifestations of the Metaverse, it can be said that it has content and tendencies that open the door to religious abuse. At this point, it is understood that the absence of religious authority and lack of religious control is one of the main reasons for this. In particular, the dominance of the avatar-oriented religion approach rather than the authoritarian-oriented religion in the traditional religion is striking. This shows the ambiguity and meaninglessness of how religion will be located in the Metaverse, and the lack of (e) the content of any structure or system that can correspond to religious experience and spirituality. At this point, we do not have a religious indicator other than making a place of worship or wandering around with digital fiction. At this point, there is not enough data on how to make sense of human beings' transcendent or religious dimensions, even through the avatar. The absence of authority to explain the religious manifestations and extras in the metaverse leads to profound ambiguity in the religious sense. It is seen that the meaning of religious behavior, attitude, symbol, and language in Metaverse is limited to digital content. This is an attempt to prevent the diversity that may occur from religious perspectives and experiences. In addition, this situation only allows it to go up to the limit determined by digital elements. This can cause religious and moral deviations and breaks in the Metaverse. Thus, it becomes possible for people to have problems regarding religious experience and interpretation due to the lack of religious authority and guidance. The fictional and perceptual qualities of Metaverse, in a sense, are strengthened by three-dimensional avatars equipped with anthropomorphic features. It means that robotic/mechanical human beings, discovered with the saving of movement (equipments) since time and space, are imbued with divine qualities in subjects such as creation, survival, death, and the hereafter. In this sense, the human being is drawn to a field of thought that can be expressed with the motto "man is self-sufficient" or "man is the measure of everything" as a striking element in the avatar figures equipped in anthropomorphic style. In light of these analyses, the following questions may come to mind: Is a system setup contemplated in the Metaverse that can respond to religious, moral, or spiritual social needs? Or, according to the current fiction, is this need or dimension of society neglected? Or is the transcendent/religious dimension of the individual or organization completely left to human monopoly (initiative)? If the intended setup of the Metaverse is like this, wouldn't this serve the deification of man? Or at least not lay the groundwork for it? Thus, based on the transhumanist perspective, the aim of sanctifying the human being and wearing the armor of immortality can emerge. In augmented virtual reality, it is another matter of debate whether the limitation of human beings to purely digital/mechanical/robotic worlds or situations and the extent to which they want to fit into these are compatible with human nature and real life. As a result, the importance of a more detailed and different view of the religious and social manifestations of the Metaverse emerges. In this context, the idea that research based on religious and social perspectives on Metaverse should gain momentum. It seems essential to realize alternative studies for environments or applications with digital content, which can be an alternative to the fictional and perceptual world of Metaverse, which are more understandable in the religious and social dimension, sustainable, educational qualities are at the forefront, taking into account the transcendent and spiritual dimension of human beings.

Motion recognition (MR)-based somatosensory interaction technology, which interprets user movements as input instructions, presents a natural approach for promoting human-computer interaction, a critical element for advancing metaverse applications. Herein, this work introduces a non-intrusive muscle-sensing wearable device, that in conjunction with machine learning, enables motion-control-based somatosensory interaction with metaverse avatars. To facilitate MR, the proposed device simultaneously detects muscle mechanical activities, including dynamic muscle shape changes and vibrational mechanomyogram signals, utilizing a flexible 16-channel pressure sensor array (weighing approximate to 0.38 g). Leveraging the rich information from multiple channels, a recognition accuracy of approximate to 96.06% is achieved by classifying ten lower-limb motions executed by ten human subjects. In addition, this work demonstrates the practical application of muscle-sensing-based somatosensory interaction, using the proposed wearable device, for enabling the real-time control of avatars in a virtual space. This study provides an alternative approach to traditional rigid inertial measurement units and electromyography-based methods for achieving accurate human motion capture, which can further broaden the applications of motion-interactive wearable devices for the coming metaverse age. A non-invasive wearable device has been developed, incorporating a soft pressure sensor array that enables simultaneous detection of muscle deformation and mechanomyography. By leveraging machine learning techniques, this device demonstrates its ability to recognize a minimum of ten distinct lower limb motions, showcasing significant potential for future metaverse applications. image

Objective: The aim of this study was to answer the question, Do drivers take into account the action boundaries of their car when overtaking? Background: The Morice et al. affordance-based approach to visually guided overtaking suggests that the overtake-ability affordance can be formalized as the ratio of the minimum satisfying velocity (MSV) of the maneuver to the maximum velocity (V-max) of the driven car. In this definition, however, the maximum acceleration (A(max)) of the vehicle is ignored. We hypothesize that drivers may be sensitive to an affordance redefined with the ratio of the minimum satisfying acceleration (MSA) to the A(max) of the car. Method: Two groups of nine drivers drove cars differing in their A(max). They were instructed to attempt overtaking maneuvers in 25 situations resulting from the combination of five MSA and five MSV values. Results: When overtaking frequency was expressed as a function of MSV and MSA, maneuvers were found to be initiated differently for the two groups. However, when expressed as a function of MSV/V-max and MSA/A(max), overtaking frequency was quite similar for both groups. Finally, a multiple regression coefficient analysis demonstrated that overtaking decisions are fully explained by a composite variable comprising MSA/A(max) and the time required to reach MSV. Conclusion: Drivers reliably decide whether overtaking is safe (or not) by using low- and high-order variables taking into account their car's maximum velocity and acceleration, respectively, as predicted by affordance-based control theory. Application: Potential applications include the design of overtaking assistance, which should exploit the MSA/A(max) variables in order to suggest perceptually relevant overtaking solutions.

Research has established that intrinsic motivation has a positive effect on learning and academic achievement. In order to investigate the phenomenon of intrinsic motivation in technology supported learning environments, this paper investigates the factors deemed to support individual student intrinsic motivation in online discussions. A research model is presented based on research into motivation, and the specific areas of self-determination and curiosity provide a framework for the model. Mean scores for both online discussions and face-to-face discussions were compared using a two tailed t-test for the six constructs of perceived competence, perceived challenge, feedback, perceived choice, perceived interest, and perceived curiosity. Results from the study showed that online discussions provided significantly stronger mean ratings (t = 3.2) for perceived choice than did face-to face-discussions, while online discussions gave somewhat significantly stronger mean scores for perceived competence (t = 1.84) than similar face-to-face discussions. Feedback obtained identical mean scores for both online and face-to-face discussions, as did perceived interest, while the slightly higher differences in the online situation were not significant for perceived challenge (t = 0.96) or perceived curiosity (t = 1.19). Assessing the factors deemed to support individual student intrinsic motivation may assist in enhancing intrinsically motivated behavior in technology-supported learning environments. This would assist Web course designers and science educators to create online learning programs that best utilize students capacity for learning and academic performance. The Web, with no direct verbal face-to-face interaction, lends itself better to online discussion in a more structured manner by enabling students to communicate more comfortably with their peers and provides a more egalitarian environment, where participants share the same tools and opportunities to communicate. The creation of online learning programs provides students significant opportunities for learning, such as the extended exchange of ideas and expertise where students can read, respond to, or initiate comments in a virtual meeting space.

ObjectiveTo determine the relationship between hearing loss etiology, cochlear implant (CI) programming levels, and speech perception performance in a large clinical cohort of pediatric CI recipients.Study DesignRetrospective chart review.SettingTertiary care hospitals.PatientsA total of 136 pediatric CI recipients (218 ears) were included in this study. All patients had diagnoses of either enlarged vestibular aqueduct (EVA) or GJB2 (Connexin-26) mutation confirmed via radiographic data and/or genetic reports. All patients received audiologic care at either Boston Children's Hospital or Massachusetts Eye and Ear in Boston, MA, between the years 1999 and 2020.Main Outcome MeasuresElectrode impedances and programming levels for each active electrode and speech perception scores were evaluated as a function of etiology (EVA or GJB2 mutation).ResultsChildren with EVA had significantly higher impedances and programming levels (thresholds and upper stimulation levels) than the children with GJB2 mutation. Speech perception scores did not differ as a function of etiology in this sample; rather, they were positively correlated with duration of CI experience (time since implantation).ConclusionsDifferences in electrode impedances and CI programming levels suggest that the electrode-neuron interface varies systematically as a function of hearing loss etiology in pediatric CI recipients with EVA and those with GJB2 mutation. Time with the CI was a better predictor of speech perception scores than etiology, suggesting that children can adapt to CI stimulation with experience.

Motion-Based Touchless Games (MBTG) are being investigated as a promising interaction paradigm in children's learning experiences. Within these games, children's digital persona (i.e, avatar), enables them to efficiently communicate their motion-based interactivity. However, the role of children's Avatar Self-Representation (ASR) in educational MBTG is rather under-explored. We present an in-situ within subjects study where 46 children, aged 8-12, played three MBTG with different ASRs. Each avatar had varying visual similarity and movement congruity (synchronisation of movement in digital and physical spaces) to the child. We automatically and continuously monitored children's experiences using sensing technology (eye-trackers, facial video, wristband data, and Kinect skeleton data). This allowed us to understand how children experience the different ASRs, by providing insights into their affective and behavioural processes. The results showed that ASRs have an effect on children's stress, arousal, fatigue, movement, visual inspection (focus) and cognitive load. By exploring the relationship between children's degree of self-representation and their affective and behavioural states, our findings help shape the design of future educational MBTG for children, and emphasises the need for additional studies to investigate how ASRs impacts children's behavioural, interaction, cognitive and learning processes.

Emotions should play an important role in the design of interfaces because people interact with machines as if they were social actors. This paper presents a literature review on affective expressions through speech, music and body language. It summarizes the quality and quantity of their parameters and successful examples of synthesis. Moreover, a model for the convincingness of affective expressions, based on Fogg and Hsiang Tseng (1999), was developed and tested. The empirical data did not support the original model and therefore this paper proposes a new model, which is based on appropriateness and intensity of the expressions. Furthermore, the experiment investigated if the type of emotion (happiness, sadness, anger, surprise, fear and disgust), knowledge about the source (human or machine), the level of abstraction (natural face, computer rendered face and matrix face) and medium of presentation (visual, audio/visual, audio) of an affective expression influences its convincingness and distinctness. Only the type of emotion and multimedia presentations had an effect on convincingness. The distinctness of an expression depends on the abstraction and the media through which it is presented. Z8 0

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) affects many people; the Center for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 1 in 59 children are currently identified with ASD in the United States. Although it is difficult to generalize about people with ASD due to their heterogeneity, many share an affinity for technologies; as such, numerous academic endeavors and commercial products have focused on the creation of interactive technologies for ASD. In this article, we present findings from 19 interviews and 230 surveys with parents, teachers, and therapists who had children with ASD in their care and had considered or used interactive technologies with those children. We aimed to understand how interactive technologies were used, perceived, desired, and discovered. Findings of use and perception included the following: participants had tried a wide range of commercially available technologies but had very few reported products in common, products were limited to commercial mobile-based apps, and apps were typically perceived positively. In regard to desires, participants hoped for future technologies on diverse platforms (e.g., robots, virtual reality) with more consideration given to personalization, customization, and incorporation of audio and video. Findings about discovery included the following: participants chose technologies in an information-poor environment, and although there are many academic projects aimed at participants' desires, no participants reported any experience working with researchers. Implications of this study include the need for a recommendation and information sharing system to help people choose and discover appropriate and effective interactive technologies that are a good fit for their child. This work also pointed to a need for such a system to include findings from lab (experimental and usability) studies of commercially available interactive technologies to provide measures of efficacy and usability. Our envisioned system could also potentially help academic researchers with outreach to wider audiences.

A large amount of data acquisition and annotation work is required to train a supervised machine learning model for open scenes. However, traditional manual approaches are inefficient. Here, a method is proposed for on-site image acquisition and semiautomatic annotation based on eye-tracking. This method uses the recognition capabilities and computational advantages of humans and machines to improve annotation efficiency, overcoming the bottleneck of AI-based approaches to the natural scenery understanding of field robots. The proposed method contains three advancements. First, we designed a head-mounted display with a built-in pose measurement module to achieve first-person teleoperation data acquisition, where a pseudoframe interpolation algorithm is designed to overcome the latency problem in immersive remote data transmission and to achieve efficient field data acquisition. Second, we propose an adaptive superpixel segmentation algorithm to reduce human-machine interactions based on eye-tracking. Third, since traditionally, the annotation process cannot provide feedback to the acquisition process and results in a low conversion rate. We proposed a new conversion rate index denoting the rate of transforming collected data into valid data to quantify the acquisition quality in real time. While achieving an annotation quality of 0.964 per the Dice index, which is approximately equal to that of the manual method, the proposed method improves the annotation efficiency by more than 3 times. Finally, the agricultural field experiments containing a real-life scene of robotic tomato-picking verified that the proposed method based on human-computer interaction can make full use of human perception and recognition intelligence. Z8 0

Cyclists are frequent casualties in road traffic collisions, and cyclist inattention is often implicated. Children are more distractible than adults and so are arguably more vulnerable road users, including when cycling. Research shows that misallocation of attention or distraction is a common factor in crashes involving cyclists, and child cyclists are more likely to be seriously injured, possibly because their hazard perception is inferior to that of adults. Video-based training paradigms designed to improve children's hazard perception and situation awareness have yielded mixed findings, but none have examined positive transfer of such training interventions to onroad cycling performance. The aim of this study was to use an immersive video-based training protocol to improve attention allocation, situation awareness and on-road cycling performance in children who had completed UK cycle training aimed at 9-11-year-olds. Thirty-three children aged 10-12 years were randomly allocated to either an Intervention group or a Control group. All participants reported their cycling behaviour and cycling self-efficacy, and completed online situation awareness tests at baseline, post-test, and retention stages. Between baseline and post-test, the intervention group (n = 17) completed a lab-based training protocol in which they viewed real-world cyclist point-of-view footage on an immersive screen while pedalling on a stationary cycle. As they navigated five virtual routes their task was to demonstrate awareness of potential hazards and other information pertinent to their safety, with decreasing levels of support from the researcher as they progressed. The control group did not receive the training intervention. All participants' cycling performance was individually assessed on urban roads on two testing occasions, by qualified cycle instructors. The intervention group outperformed the control group in terms of their on-road performance, in terms of Making good and frequent observations (Observation; F[1,31]) = 16.53, eta(2)(p) = 0.35, p = 0.0003,); Communicating intentions clearly to others (Communication; F[1,31]) = 13.70, eta(2)(p) = 0.31, p = 0.001); Choosing and maintaining the most suitable riding positions (Position; F[1,31]) = 7.41, eta(2)(p) = 0.19, p = 0.01); and Understanding priorities on the road, particularly at junctions (Priorities; F[1,31]) = 6.88, eta(2)(p) = 0.18, p = 0.01), although this was not accompanied by significant changes in their cycling self-efficacy and situation awareness, all p's > 0.05. The present findings suggest that an immersive video-based protocol such as the one herein may improve children's safety when cycling on roads and may therefore be an effective complement to current cycle training protocols. Given ongoing governmental investment in cycling infrastructure in the UK, with a concomitant increase in micromobility modes of active travel, national policy will need to consider the additional perceptual-cognitive demands that will face young cyclists; immersive training is a potentially efficient and cost-effective way to mitigate these demands. However, further research attention should be devoted to the development of effective situation awareness tests - preferably ones that correlate with, if not predict, children's independent on-road cycling performance. Z8 0

The progress made in Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) has played a crucial role in turning the Internet of Things (IoT) into a reality. IoT is an emerging technology that refers to networks of interconnected and Internet-enabled objects equipped with sensors, processors, and actuators that interact with each other to create significant collaboration and interaction environments. The field of education is one of the areas where IoT can be applied. However, the implementation of IoT poses security and privacy risks, such as unauthorized access, denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, and interference with wireless signals where IoT devices collect a significant amount of data, including user's personal information like identity, location, and daily behavior. Therefore, it is crucial to protect users' privacy in IoT applications. The innovative Ubiquitous Learning Environments (ULEs) have been created by ubiquitous computing technologies (mobile, wireless, network), which provide learners with learning experiences beyond the traditional classroom in both the real and virtual worlds. Ubiquitous learning (U-learning) is an emerging technology as a result of the tremendous technological revolution of ICT. U-learning is a novel learner-centered approach that aims to enhance learning, motivation, and creativity by utilizing innovative technology and IoT. U-learning enables learners to access the appropriate learning content, collaborate with the right learning partners, and engage in self-learning at the right time and place in a ubiquitous computing environment. To support learners in developing their social skills, in this study a framework for implementing the ULE based on the Internet of Things is designed, which consists of three main layers: perception, network, and application. The article explores the effects of IoT on education and how U-learning, which incorporates IoT to enhance learning experiences, has the potential to replace traditional classroom learning. Furthermore, the article addresses privacy preservation measures for different layers within the IoT environment and ULE. A framework for implementing the ULE model is in progress, which is a part of our future work.

BackgroundDue to the recent evolution of telecommunications, it is now acknowledged that digital communication provides essential services for remote areas. Teleradiology allows the ability to obtain images at one site, send them over a distance, and view them remotely for diagnostic or consultation purposes.AimThe highlighted objectives include (a) the added value of the service, (b) user satisfaction, and (c) quality assurance according to global best practices and national quality standards.MethodsThis study utilised an eight-part online self-report survey distributed among employees of the Ministry of Health (MOH) who use the national teleradiology platform. The survey sections were designed to gather comprehensive data, including participant demographics, levels of satisfaction with the service, awareness of security measures, communication effectiveness, perceived advantages and disadvantages, quality assurance, technical challenges, IT support, and future perceptions of teleradiology services. Additionally, a total of 212 MRI reports from patients who underwent brain and spine MRI examinations between 2018 and 2020 were collected from the platform to strengthen the analysis.ResultsMost survey respondents (78%) were males, with a significant majority (96.2%) affirming that teleradiology sufficiently addresses clinical inquiries. Furthermore, 90% expressed satisfaction with the service, and 93% endorsed the standardization of MR imaging procedures across Ministry of Health (MOH) hospitals. Notably, 92.4% recognised teleradiology as a transformative strategy for healthcare facilities in Saudi Arabia, concurring with its benefits. The analysis of the MRI reports revealed structural inconsistencies; compared with structured templates, the average number of incorporated elements was reduced, and essential elements were frequently absent. Intriguingly, reports delineating normal cases included a higher incidence of clinical impressions relative to those describing abnormalities, yet the latter contained a more comprehensive array of elements. Variability in report composition was correlated with the years of experience of the reporters. Teleradiology users perceived enhancements in the quality of radiological reporting and the daily operational workflow. Nonetheless, certain limitations were identified, necessitating focused improvements by service providers.ConclusionDespite teleradiology being a subspecialisation, it can reduce the role of local radiologists. Further research is needed on data security, confidentiality, and archiving options, as well as the cost-effectiveness of teleradiology services.

In an era of technological advancements, there are multiple stratagems to remain relevant and be one step ahead of the others in the same field. Exploring the convergence of humanoid artificial intelligence, the communities of Metaverse, Artificial Intelligence of Things, and the Machine Learners align their goals into integrating both physical and virtual worlds which opens a lot of opportunity in human and robot interaction. Anthropomorphic robots are built with the grandiose objective of emulating human form and function, serving an extensive spectrum of purposes in a variety of industries and applications. Its utility encompasses nearly everything from assistance and companionship to industrial and recreational applications. Humanoid devices are capable of being an aid in the realm of healthcare such as therapeutic activities, featuring tailored care and support towards people experiencing physical constraints or impairments. These robots can undertake difficult endeavors with dexterity in the manufacturing process, enhancing efficiency and productivity. Furthermore, humanoid robots have the potential to revolutionize education by functioning as interactive instructors as well as companions for people who are subjected to difficulties with learning. These robotics' potential goes further towards responding to catastrophic instances, where its handiness and versatility allow it to venture into complicated areas, analyze factors, and conduct operations that humans may deem hazardous. Artificially intelligent humanoids ought to be able to consistently acquire knowledge and adjust to shifting circumstances. This implies utilizing reinforcement learning to improve performance and responsiveness over time by refining its actions. Anthropoid robots' adaptability markets them as vital instruments with a likelihood to augment human abilities as they confront a multitude of challenges across various domains. These humanoid robots are designed to take the form and function of a human thus serving as the physical embodiment of adaptable intelligent systems. The cognitive abilities and adaptive learning of a humanoid robot are to be explained in this paper, as well as the intricate details of how machine learning techniques influence the robots' capacity to learn from experiences and dynamically respond to perplexing surroundings. As technology progresses, the attempt to create increasingly accurate humanoid robots propels the boundaries of what is plausible, establishing not only an insight into the future but also a mirror of the nuances that constitute our own humanity. Constructing a humanoid robot that is capable of functioning as a human necessitates working with a complex web of aspects involving mechanics, artificial intelligence, and neurological mechanisms. In order to accomplish a robot that resembles anthropomorphic movement, a proficient mechanical craftsmanship must be developed. Humanoid robots must replicate the human body's versatility in motion, mobility of joints, and precision. The aforementioned entails using cutting-edge materials and exquisite engineering to simulate the subtleties of human freedom of movement, spanning delicate motor ability to seamless propulsion. For a humanoid robot to navigate and interact with its environment, advanced sensory mechanisms must be integrated. Furthermore, not only its vision equipment should perceive surroundings, whereas it must also recognize imagery and depth perception. Sensors that measure tactile sensations convey signals for sensitive interactions and object maneuvering by portraying the human sense of contact. For the purpose of allowing accurate movement coordination, kinesthesia is adapted. In imitation of human cognitive functions, human-like robots depend on advanced artificial intelligence algorithms. This comprehensive abstract offers a wide-ranging overview of the present state and future possibilities of humanoid robots. It emerges into the tremendous mechanical capabilities, revolutionary intellectual developments, interaction between humans and robots' dynamics, and the stimulating perspectives that stretch beyond. Humanoid robots, as an embodiment of intelligence, occupy a key position where technology progress meets societal development. The subject matter is an immersion account about humanity's ongoing attempt at developing intelligent devices that precisely replicate while gaining insight on the complexities of human existence. The futuristic frontiers of humanoid robotics are to be explored throughout the study, envisioning a world in which these machines serve critical roles in the fields of space exploration, healthcare, education, and several other fields. Humanoid robots, as technology improves, possess the ability to revolutionize our view of human and machine interdependence, not solely as tools, but as essential contributors to our society. This concept probes into the terrain of collaborative robotics, focusing on the synergistic interaction that exists between mankind and humanoid robots. This relationship includes more than just physical assistance; it also includes an integrated intellect that boosts innovative thinking, troubleshooting, and effectiveness. The prospective societal impact of humanoid robots in harmonious roles reckon a more secure work environment, improved output, and job role reconfiguration in an array of industries. In the department of Artificial Intelligence of Things, humanoid robots serve as autonomous components, traversing real world settings while interfacing networks. The ability of these machines to process real-time data, interpret environmental cues, and communicate with other IoT devices, alongside improving linked system performance, also incorporates a more unified and responsive IoT community. Concurrently, humanoid robots also act as digital characters, embodying individuals in virtual places, bridging the gap between actual existence and the Metaverse. Such physicality offers a newchannel for immersive interactions, permitting users to gain access to the Metaverse bymeans of the eyes of humanoid substitutes, facilitating a more cohesive consolidation of physical and virtual realities.

Tactile hands-only training is particularly important for medical palpation. Generally, equipment for palpation training is expensive, static, or provides too few study cases to practice on. We have therefore developed a novel haptic surface concept for palpation training, using ferrogranular jamming. The concept's design consists of a tactile field spanning 260 x 160 mm, and uses ferromagnetic granules to alter shape, position, and hardness of palpable irregularities. Granules are enclosed in a compliant vacuum-sealed chamber connected to a pneumatic system. A variety of geometric shapes (output) can be obtained by manipulating and arranging granules with permanent magnets. The tactile hardness of the palpable output can be controlled by adjusting the chamber's vacuum level. A psychophysical experiment (N = 28) investigated how people interact with the palpable surface and evaluated the proposed concept. Untrained participants characterized irregularities with different position, form, and hardness through palpation, and their performance was evaluated. A baseline (no irregularity) was compared to three irregularity conditions: two circular shapes with different hardness (Hard Lump and Soft Lump), and an Annulus shape. 100% of participants correctly identified an irregularity in the three irregularity conditions, whereas 78.6% correctly identified baseline. Overall agreement between participants was high (kappa= 0.723). The Intersection over Union (IoU) for participants sketched outline over the actual shape was IoU Mdn = 79.3% for Soft Lump, IoU Mdn = 68.8% for Annulus, and IoU Mdn = 76.7% for Hard Lump. The distance from actual to drawn center was Mdn = 6.4 mm (Soft Lump), Mdn = 5.3 mm (Annulus), and Mdn = 7.4 mm (Hard Lump), which are small distances compared to the size of the field. The participants subjectively evaluated Soft Lump to be significantly softer than Hard Lump and Annulus. Moreover, 71% of participants thought they improved their palpation skills throughout the experiment. Together, these results show that the concept can render irregularities with different position, form, and hardness, and that users are able to locate and characterize these through palpation. Participants experienced an improvement in palpation skills throughout the experiment, which indicates the concepts feasibility as a palpation training device. Z8 0

Haptic (touch) is important for effective interaction with the surroundings. In teleoperated surgical systems, its absence leads to reduced perception, making delicate tasks difficult and resulting in unexpected damage to surrounding tissues. To enhance safety, a force-feedback system and haptic device are needed. However, existing haptic prototypes are associated with rigid, bulky, and heavy components, making effective communication with the skin problematic. This paper presents a teleoperated endoscopic surgical system with an integrated 3D force sensor and real-time haptic feedback. A surgical robotic arm is remotely controlled by a soft haptic glove incorporated 3-axis cutaneous device and a finger kinesthetic module. The 3D force sensor is constructed from hydraulic filament soft sensors that can induce pressure change under strain. To enable precise motion, the haptic glove is operated by a feedforward controller and a master-slave architecture. Experiments with human subjects (n = 15) show that cutaneous and kinesthetic feedback significantly improves the user's performance (9.4 out of 10) compared to no haptic feedback (2.27 out of 10). Finally, subjects rank the new system as highly wearable, comfortable, and effective, which is expected to bridge a gap in the surgical field and support the future development of advanced teleoperated systems. This work introduces a teleoperated surgical system with integrated 3D force sensor and a soft wearable haptic display. The new system is expected to bridge a gap in the field of wearable haptic devices and support the future development of remote surgery. image

Introduction: We examined the potential impact of banning tobacco displays and mandating plain packaging and cigarette advertisements at the point of sale (POS) on adult outcomes. Methods: A virtual convenience store was created with scenarios in which the tobacco product display was either fully visible (status quo) or enclosed behind a cabinet (display ban), and cigarette packs and advertisements were either in full color (status quo) or black and white, text only (plain). A national convenience sample of 1313 adult current smokers and recent quitters was randomized to 1 of 4 conditions and given a shopping task to complete in the virtual store. Main outcomes were participants' self-reported urge to smoke and tobacco purchase attempts in the virtual store. Results: Compared with recent quitters in the status quo conditions, recent quitters in the display ban condition had lower urges to smoke ((beta = -4.82, 95% CI = 8.16- -1.49, p < 0.01). Compared with current smokers in the status quo conditions, smokers in the display ban conditions were less likely to attempt to purchase cigarettes in the virtual store (OR = 0.05, 95% CI = 0.03-0.08, P < 0.01). Smokers exposed to plain packs and ads were significantly less likely to attempt to purchase cigarettes (OR = 031, 95% CI = 0.20-0.47, P < 0.01) than those exposed to color packs and ads. Conclusions: Policies that ban the display of tobacco products or require plain packaging and advertising at the POS may help reduce adult smoking. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Some diagnostic tasks in MRI involve determining the presence of a faint feature (target) relative to a dark background. In MR images produced by taking pixel magnitudes it is well known that the contrast between faint features and dark backgrounds is reduced due to the Rician noise distribution. In an attempt to enhance detection we implemented three different MRI reconstruction algorithms: the normal magnitude, phase-corrected real, and a wavelet thresholding algorithm designed particularly for MRI noise suppression and contrast enhancement. To compare these reconstructions, we had volunteers perform a two-alternative forced choice (2AFC) signal detection task. The stimuli were produced from high-field head MRI images with synthetic thermal noise added to ensure realistic backgrounds. Circular targets were located in regions of the image that were dark, but next to bright anatomy. Images were processed using one of the three reconstruction techniques. In addition we compared a channelized Hotelling observer (CHO) to the human observers in this task. We measured the percentage correct in both the human and model observer experiments. Our results showed better performance with the use of magnitude or phase-corrected real images compared to the use of the wavelet algorithm. In particular, artifacts induced by the wavelet algorithm seem to distract some users and produce significant inter-subject variability. This contradicts predictions based only on SNR. The CHO matched the mean human results quite closely, demonstrating that this model observer may be used to simulate human response in MRI target detection tasks.

Objective. The prospective efficacy of a future peripheral retinal prosthesis complementing residual vision to raise mobility performance in non-end stage retinitis pigmentosa (RP) was evaluated using simulated prosthetic vision (SPV). Approach. Normally sighted volunteers were fitted with a wide-angle head-mounted display and carried out mobility tasks in photorealistic virtual pedestrian scenarios. Circumvention of low-lying obstacles, path following, and navigating around static and moving pedestrians were performed either with central simulated residual vision of 10 degrees alone or enhanced by assistive SPV in the lower and lateral peripheral visual field (VF). Three layouts of assistive vision corresponding to hypothetical electrode array layouts were compared, emphasizing higher visual acuity, a wider visual angle, or eccentricity-dependent acuity across an intermediate angle. Movement speed, task time, distance walked and collisions with the environment were analysed as performance measures. Main results. Circumvention of low-lying obstacles was improved with all tested configurations of assistive SPV. Higher-acuity assistive vision allowed for greatest improvement in walking speeds-14% above that of plain residual vision, while only wide-angle and eccentricity-dependent vision significantly reduced the number of collisions-both by 21%. Navigating around pedestrians, there were significant reductions in collisions with static pedestrians by 33% and task time by 7.7% with the higher-acuity layout. Following a path, higher-acuity assistive vision increased walking speed by 9%, and decreased collisions with stationary cars by 18%. Significance. The ability of assistive peripheral prosthetic vision to improve mobility performance in persons with constricted VFs has been demonstrated. In a prospective peripheral visual prosthesis, electrode array designs need to be carefully tailored to the scope of tasks in which a device aims to assist. We posit that maximum benefit might come from application alongside existing visual aids, to further raise life quality of persons living through the prolonged early stages of RP.

Background: There is a need for effective and early functional rehabilitation of patients with gait and balance problems including those with spinal cord injury, neurological diseases and recovering from hip fractures, a common consequence of falls especially in the elderly population. Gait training in these patients using partial body weight support (BWS) on a treadmill, a technique that involves unloading the subject through a harness, improves walking better than training with full weight bearing. One problem with this technique not commonly acknowledged is that the harness provides external support that essentially eliminates associated postural adjustments (APAs) required for independent gait. We have developed a device to address this issue and conducted a training study for proof of concept of efficacy. Methods: We present a tool that can enhance the concept of BWS training by allowing natural APAs to occur mediolaterally. While in a supine position in a 90 deg tilted environment built around a modified hospital bed, subjects wear a backpack frame that is freely moving on air-bearings (cf. puck on an air hockey table) and attached through a cable to a pneumatic cylinder that provides a load that can be set to emulate various G-like loads. Veridical visual input is provided through two 3-D automultiscopic displays that allow glasses free 3-D vision representing a virtual surrounding environment that may be acquired from sites chosen by the patient. Two groups of 12 healthy subjects were exposed to either strength training alone or a combination of strength and balance training in such a tilted environment over a period of four weeks. Results: Isokinetic strength measured during upright squat extension improved similarly in both groups. Measures of balance assessed in upright showed statistically significant improvements only when balance was part of the training in the tilted environment. Postural measures indicated less reliance on visual and/or increased use of somatosensory cues after training. Conclusion: Upright balance function can be improved following balance specific training performed in a supine position in an environment providing the perception of an upright position with respect to gravity. Future studies will implement this concept in patients.

Without doubt, aggressive driving is a serious hazard on our roads. The problem with common measures against aggressive driving (e.g., speeding cameras) is that they force drivers to change their behavior, which can make them feel even more aggressive and lead to reactance. As an alternative solution that persuades people to drive less aggressively, the Driving Feedback Avatar (DFA) was developed. The DFA is an in-car interface that provides visual feedback on a driver's behavior with a focus on aggressive driving. Summative feedback is represented by an avatar that gradually changes its emotional state depending on the behavior. Instant feedback is given in the form of a flashing light directly after the aggressive action occurred. The paper presents a driving study that investigated the effectiveness of the DFA in real traffic. In a within-subjects design, 32 participants completed a test drive with and without a prototype of the system while their driving behavior was logged. Based on the logs, nine behaviors that were considered indicators of aggressive driving were compared within both conditions. Although participants did not drive significantly less aggressively under the system's influence, it is remarkable that they generally showed less discrete aggressive driving behaviors (e.g., use of indicators) but-contrary to expectations-more continuous ones (e.g., speeding). The paper concludes with directions for future iterations of the DFA.

Introduction. The computing capabilities of state-of-the-art television sets and media centres may facilitate the introduction of computer-assisted evaluation at home. This approach would help to overcome the drawbacks of traditional pen-and-paper evaluations administered in clinical facilities, as they could be performed in a more comfortable environment, the subject's home, and they would be more flexible for designing complex environments for the evaluation of neuropsychological constructs that are difficult to assess through traditional testing. The objective of this work was to obtain some initial evidence about the technical acceptance by senior adults of serious games played at home on the TV set and therefore about the convenience of further investigating such an approach to cognitive assesment. Materials and Methods. We developed a collection of games to be deployed on a TV environment. These games were tried by a group of senior adults at their homes. The Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) was used to validate this approach. Surveys were performed to study the perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of such technical setting as an instrument for their cognitive evaluation; that is, its technical acceptance. Subjective information collected from participants was correlated with actual interaction data captured. An additional survey was performed 36 months after pilot testing to have an indication about the long-term perceptions about usefulness and ease of use. Results. More than 90% of participating subjects perceived cognitive games on TV as useful or very useful. The majority of participants selected the TV set as their preferred option to interact with serious games at home, when compared to other devices such as smartphones, tablets or PCs. This result correlates with the number of participants perceiving them as easily usable or very easy to use, and also with automatically captured interaction data. Three out of four seniors expressed their interest in keeping the system at home after the pilot. Besides, these perceptions are fairly stable in time as shown by the survey performed 36 months after pilot testing. Limitations. Although participating users are a representative sample of the Galician population, which in turn is comparable to the population of most rural areas in Europe, a larger and more diverse user sample would be needed to obtain significant results for a wider population profile. Conclusion. The study confirmed the technical acceptance, that is, the perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, of the TV-based home technical setting introduced as a means of cognitive evaluation. This study provides initial evidence on the viability of a TV-based serious games approach for cognitive longitudinal screening at home with little intervention of clinical professionals, thus contributing to the early detection of cognitive impairments in the senior population.

Snake robots have shown a great potential for operations in confined workplaces that are less accessible or dangerous to human workers, such as the in-pipe inspection. However, the snake robot teleoperation remains a nontrivial task due to the unique locomotion mechanism (e.g., helical motion) and the constraints of the workplaces including the low visibility and indistinguishable features. Most snake robot feedback systems are based on the live camera view only. It is hard for the human operator to develop a correct spatial understanding of the remote workplace, leading to problems such as disorientation and motion sickness in snake robot teleoperation. This study designs and evaluates an innovative haptic assistant system for snake robot teleoperation in the in-pipe inspection. An upper-body haptic suit with 40 vibrators on both the front and back sides of the human operator was developed to generate haptic feedback corresponding to the bottom and up sides of the snake robot, transferring the egocentric sensation of the snake robot to the human operator. A human-subject experiment (n = 31) was performed to evaluate the efficacy of the developed system. The results indicate that the proposed haptic assistant system outperformed other feedback systems in terms of both task performance and subjective workload and motion sickness evaluations. It inspires new control and feedback designs for the future snake robot in industrial operations.

Background Virtual reality (VR) computer technology creates a simulated environment, perceived as comparable to the real world, with which users can actively interact. The eCectiveness of VR distraction on acute pain intensity in children is uncertain. Objectives To assess the eCectiveness and adverse eCects of virtual reality (VR) distraction interventions for children (0 to 18 years) with acute pain in any healthcare setting. Search methods We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO and four trial registries to October 2019. We also searched reference lists of eligible studies, handsearched relevant journals and contacted study authors. Selection criteria Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), including cross-over and cluster-RCTs, comparing VR distraction to no distraction, non-VR distraction or other VR distraction. Data collection and analysis We used standard Cochrane methodological processes. Two reviewers assessed risk of bias and extracted data independently. The primary outcome was acute pain intensity (during procedure, and up to one hour post-procedure). Secondary outcomes were adverse eCects, child satisfaction with VR, pain-related distress, parent anxiety, rescue analgesia and cost. We used GRADE and created 'Summary of findings' tables. Main results We included 17 RCTs (1008 participants aged four to 18 years) undergoing various procedures in healthcare settings. We did not pool data because the heterogeneity in population (i.e. diverse ages and developmental stages of children and their diCerent perceptions and reactions to pain) and variations in procedural conditions (e.g. phlebotomy, burn wound dressings, physical therapy sessions), and consequent level of pain experienced, made statistical pooling of data impossible. We narratively describe results. We judged most studies to be at unclear risk of selection bias, high risk of performance and detection bias, and high risk of bias for small sample sizes. Across all comparisons and outcomes, we downgraded the certainty of evidence to low or very low due to serious study limitations and serious or very serious indirectness. We also downgraded some of the evidence for very serious imprecision. 1: VR distraction versus no distraction Acute pain intensity: during procedure Self-report: one study (42 participants) found no beneficial eCect of non-immersive VR (very low-certainty evidence). Observer-report: no data. Behavioural measurements (observer-report): two studies, 62 participants; low-certainty evidence. One study (n = 42) found no beneficial eCect of non-immersive VR. One study (n = 20) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR. Acute pain intensity: post-procedure Self-report: 10 studies, 461 participants; very low-certainty evidence. Four studies (n = 95) found no beneficial eCect of immersive and semiimmersive or non-immersive VR. Five studies (n = 357) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR. Another study (n = 9) reported less pain in the VR group. Observer-report: two studies (216 participants; low-certainty evidence) found a beneficial eCect of immersive VR, as reported by primary caregiver/parents or nurses. One study (n = 80) found a beneficial eCect of immersive VR, as reported by researchers. Behavioural measurements (observer-report): one study (42 participants) found no beneficial eCect of non-immersive VR (very lowcertainty evidence). Adverse e2ects: five studies, 154 participants; very low-certainty evidence. Three studies (n = 53) reported no adverse eCects. Two studies (n = 101) reported mild adverse eCects (e.g. nausea) in the VR group. 2: VR distraction versus other non-VR distraction Acute pain intensity: during procedure Self-report, observer-report and behavioural measurements (observer-report): two studies, 106 participants: Self-report: one study (n = 65) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR and one (n = 41) found no evidence of a diCerence in mean pain change scores (very low-certainty evidence). Observer-report: one study (n = 65) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR and one (n = 41) found no evidence of a diCerence in mean pain change scores (low-certainty evidence). Behavioural measurements (observer-report): one study (n = 65) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR and one (n = 41) reported a diCerence in mean pain change scores with fewer pain behaviours in VR group (low-certainty evidence). Acute pain intensity: post-procedure Self-report: eight studies, 575 participants; very low-certainty evidence. Two studies (n = 146) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR. Two studies (n = 252) reported a between-group diCerence favouring immersive VR. One study (n = 59) found no beneficial eCect of immersive VR versus television and Child Life non-VR distraction. One study (n = 18) found no beneficial eCect of semi-immersive VR. Two studies (n = 100) reported no between-group diCerence. Observer-report: three studies, 187 participants; low-certainty evidence. One study (n = 81) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR for parent, nurse and researcher reports. One study (n = 65) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR for caregiver reports. Another study (n = 41) reported no evidence of a diCerence in mean pain change scores. Behavioural measurements (observer-report): two studies, 106 participants; low-certainty evidence. One study (n = 65) found a beneficial eCect favouring immersive VR. Another study (n = 41) reported no evidence of a diCerence in mean pain change scores. Adverse e2ects: six studies, 429 participants; very low-certainty evidence. Three studies (n = 229) found no evidence of a diCerence between groups. Two studies (n = 141) reported no adverse eCects in VR group. One study (n = 59) reported no beneficial eCect in reducing estimated cyber-sickness before and aLer VR immersion. 3: VR distraction versus other VR distraction We did not identify any studies for this comparison. Authors' conclusions We found low-certainty and very low-certainty evidence of the eCectiveness of VR distraction compared to no distraction or other non-VR distraction in reducing acute pain intensity in children in any healthcare setting. This level of uncertainty makes it diCicult to interpret the benefits or lack of benefits of VR distraction for acute pain in children. Most of the review primary outcomes were assessed by only two or three small studies. We found limited data for adverse eCects and other secondary outcomes. Future well-designed, large, high-quality trials may have an important impact on our confidence in the results.

We present here a method for calibrating an optical see-through head-mounted display (HMD) using techniques usually applied to camera calibration (photogrammetry). Using a camera placed inside the HMD to take pictures simultaneously of a tracked object and features in the HMD display, we could exploit established camera calibration techniques to recover both the intrinsic and extrinsic properties of the HMD (width, height, focal length, optic centre and principal ray of the display). Our method gives low re-projection errors and, unlike existing methods, involves no time-consuming and error-prone human measurements, nor any prior estimates about the HMD geometry. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Telerobotic operation, i.e., a human operator to manipulate remote robotic systems at a distance, has started to gain its popularity in the construction industry. It is expected to help tackle operational challenges in dynamic construction workplaces. The success of telerobotic operation builds on the effective design of the human-robot interface to provide human operators with necessary senses about the remote workplaces, involving multimodal sensory cues, such as visual, audio and haptic feedback. Especially the force feedback design in telerobotic control interface is of central interest and is becoming the main feature of the bilateral control system for teleoperation, as it helps provide feedback about heavy physical interactions and processes in typical construction operations. Nonetheless, how force feedback simulation solutions affect the human operator's perceptional and behavioral reactions is less understood. This paper investigates the neurobehavioral performance of operators with a bilateral control system in a typical industrial valve operation experiment (n = 21). The experiment tested two force feedback conditions: Realistic (the system replicates the exact same feeling of the torque in valve manipulation operations) and Mediated (the simulation reduces the force on the human operator end by 50% to enable more flexible controls). The performance of the participants was evaluated via various metrics, including task performance, human performance and operational velocity uniformity. Data was collected with eyetracking, neuroimaging (functional near-infrared spectroscopy, fNIRS), motion analysis, and NASA TLX surveys. The results indicated that the mediated force feedback in bilateral telerobotic operation helped more accurate operation, increased dual tasking, reduced cognitive load and more efficient neural functions; yet it encouraged participants to engage in more irregular actions, showing as dramatic changes in valve rotating speeds. The findings suggest that the force feedback design of telerobotic systems should be more carefully thought through to balance the advantages and disadvantages.

Objective Micro- display is an important interface connecting the real world and the metaverse world. Compared with other types of micro-displays, organic light emitting diode (OLED) on silicon micro-displays have the advantages of high resolution, high integration, low power consumption, small size, and light weight, and they have become the preferred choice of near-eye display devices. Compared with traditional OLEDs-on-silicon driven by analog signal, OLED-on- silicon micro- display driven by digital signal has obvious advantages in ultra-high-definition display. Driven by users'demand for immersive experience of virtual reality (VR) and other near-eye display devices, near- eye displays are developing towards high resolution and high frame rate. However, this brings the problem of excessive video data transmission to the micro- display system. In order to give users a higher definition and smoother near- eye display experience, it is urgent to propose an image compression algorithm for micro-displays to solve the problem of excessive video data transmission. Methods Since the lower 4 bit-planes of the 19- bit- plane image reflect the details of the image and are difficult to compress, just-noticeable difference (JND) theory is introduced. In recent years, scientific research has shown that the distribution of visual acuity is asymmetric in the whole fovea range, and the human visual system has horizontal- vertical anisotropy (HVA) and vertical- meridian asymmetry (VMA). To make the JND model more consistent with the characteristics of human vision, this paper carries out psychological experiments on the luminance, contrast and foveated masking characteristics of human vision, and constructs an asymmetric elliptical foveated JND ( AE-FJND) model based on the experimental results. Combined with the JND model, a corresponding bit-plane image compression algorithm is proposed. The data of the lower 4 bit-planes are processed within the JND threshold range, and then all- bit- plane images are compressed. The algorithm can compress the image without affecting the subjective perception of the human eyes. The algorithm is compared with the previously proposed compression algorithms in the following aspects: the subjective feeling of the compressed image is evaluated by the definition of the enlarged image in the center of the image, the quality of the compressed image is assessed by peak signal- to-noise ratio (PSNR), fovea PSNR (FPSNR), structural similarity (SSIM) and other evaluation indicators, and the compression performance of the algorithm is rated by compression rate. Results and Discussions The accuracy of the proposed AE-FJND model is verified by experiments. Subjective experiments showed that compared with the other two types of JND models, the AE-FJND model got a higher subjective score. For the same subjective score, the AE- FJND model can calculate more visual redundancy (Table 3). Objective experiments showed that the AEFJND model had less noise distribution in the foveated area, and the amount of noise injected into the upper part of the image was greater than that in the lower part, which is consistent with the visual characteristics of human HVA and VMA (Fig. 9). It can be seen from the enlarged image of the center area after noise pollution that the AE-FJND model has a high definition of the center area after noise pollution, and the result is similar to the original picture (Fig. 10). In addition, the compression effect of the proposed image compression algorithm is verified. This algorithm can solve the problem that the lower 4 bit-planes cannot be compressed (Fig. 12 and Table 4). The image compressed by this algorithm can maintain the same definition as the original image at the center of the image (Fig. 13). Compared with a comparable compression algorithm, this algorithm can calculate more visual redundancy without affecting the subjective perception of vision, and the compressed image quality is better. In addition, the compression rate is lower than that of the comparable algorithm, which can reach 39.573%, indicating that the compression performance is better ( Table 5). Compared with another compression algorithm, the proposed algorithm has higher PSNR and SSIM, and lower compression rate, which shows that this algorithm can not only ensure image quality, but also compress the image to a greater extent ( Table 6). Conclusions In order to solve the problem of excessive video data transmission in high resolution and high frame rate microdisplays, this paper proposes an algorithm to compress the video data by bit-plane according to the scanning mode of digitally driven OLED-on- silicon micro- displays. Since the lower 4 bit- planes of the 19- bit-plane image reflect more details of the image and are difficult to be further compressed, the JND theory is introduced, and the two visual characteristics of the human eye, namely, HVA and VMA, are considered. An AE- FJND model is proposed, which is more consistent with the visual redundancy characteristics of the human eyes. Based on this model, a corresponding bit- plane image compression algorithm is proposed, which performs JND processing on the data of the lower 4 bit-planes, and then performs white- black-block- skip ( WBBS) coding compression on different bit-planes respectively. According to the compression algorithm, the corresponding OLED-on-silicon micro-display controller is designed, and the OLED- on-silicon micro-display is successfully driven on the field programmable gate array (FPGA) platform. The bit-plane image compression algorithm based on this model can compress the image to a large extent without affecting the subjective feeling of the human eye. The average image compression rate can reach 39.573%, providing a relatively preferred solution to the problem of excessive data transmission faced by VR devices in the metaverse world.

Understanding the complex interaction between human needs and physical facilities in public spaces remains a challenge given the knowledge gap in sustainable cities design and research. This study selected six typical urban business walkways to compare the physiological and psychological effects of a visual-audio environment dominated by visual media on visitors. A total of 180 visitors were randomly selected on 6 walkways to collect physiological and psychological data, and visual-audio environment data were collected in the matching location. Results show that visual media are the most attractive content type in the multi-media system of business walkways, and their attractiveness is evenly distributed among all visitors. This type of media also continuously extends the engagement of visitors during their visiting time. Specifically, visitors spend 71% of their time gazing at visual media that occupy only 31.4% of the walkway facade area. Visitors also stare at videos for a longer time compared with text and images. The different visual-audio interactions in the walkway have different effects on visitors' eye movements. These visitors also have different evaluations between indoor and outdoor walkways. Specifically, visitors feel 64.4% more comfortable with the visual-audio environment in indoor walkways than in outdoor walkways. Visual-audio interaction has varying effects on visitors' comfort. Combining images with sound elements generates positive feedback, and visitors feel comfortable when the video content matches the music. The types of music played in indoor and outdoor walkways lead to differences in the temporal variability of acoustic environments. The results of this work contribute to an optimized design of multi-media installed on different functional business district walkways, which in turn can enhance the attractiveness of urban business district areas and bring a comfortable experience to visitors.

The current study applied Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) to analyze the interrelationship among index of difficulty (ID), environment, saccade duration (SD), revisited fixation duration (RFD), number of fixation (NF), pupil size (PS), eye gaze accuracy (AC), and symptoms simultaneously. SD, RFD, NF, PS, and AC were measured by utilizing the Tobii eye tracker system. Twelve participants were recruited to perform multi-directional tapping task using within-subject design with two different environments (2D screen display and 3D stereoscopic display) and six different levels of ID. SEM showed that ID had significant direct effects on SD and RFD while environment was found had significant direct effects on SD, RFD, PS, AC, and symptoms. Among selected eye movement measures, NF was found to be the best predictor of AC and PS was found to be the best predictor of symptoms. In addition, RFD was also found to be a good predictor of symptoms. Our results found that higher AC was achieved by projecting the image in the 2D screen display with higher ID and it resulted in higher SD and higher NF. Regarding the symptoms, our results found that lower symptoms were achieved by projecting the image in the 2D screen display with lower ID and it resulted in lower PS, and lower RFD. Practitioner Summary: The SEM could provide valuable theoretical foundations to identify the interrelationship among eye movement measures, AC, and symptoms particularly for VR researchers and interface developers.

Background: Treatments that provide feedback, increase practice with multiple repetitions, and motivate patients are essential to rehabilitation post stroke. Objective: To determine whether playing active video games results in improved balance and mobility post stroke. Methods: Thirty participants with chronic (time since stroke = 3.0 [2.9] years) hemiparesis post stroke were randomly assigned to a gaming group or normal activity control group. Gaming systems provided participants with an interactive interface of real-time movement of either themselves or an avatar on the screen. Participants played games 50-60 minutes/day, 4 days/week, for 5 weeks. The intervention was strictly game-play, in standing position, without physical therapy. The control group received no special intervention and continued with normal activity. Both groups were tested prior to, following the 5 weeks (post test), and 3 months following the completion of the study. Outcome measures included the Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Berg Balance Scale, Dynamic Gait Index, Timed Up & Go, 6-minute walk test, 3-meter walk (self-selected and fast), and perception of recovery. Results: No statistically significant differences between or within groups were found through analysis of covariance (covaried for side of hemiparesis) at post test or follow-up. Although the within-group effect sizes were primarily indexed as "small" (<.36), the gaming group exhibited higher within-group effect sizes before and after testing than did the control group on all 7 dependent variables analyzed. Conclusions: Even though the only intervention was game-play, there were small positive effects. Therapist assistance in making more optimum movement choices may be needed before significant improvements are seen with commercially available, general purpose games.

The number of scientific publications about serious games has exponentially increased, often surpassing human limitations in processing such a large volume of information. Consequently, the importance of frameworks for summarising such fast-expanding literature has also grown. This paper draws a panorama of serious game research streams, focusing on higher education in engineering and management. The research design involves a systematic review using PRISMA guidelines, along with bibliometric and content analyses. The sample comprises 701 documents collected from both Scopus and Web of Science databases. For supporting bibliometric analyses, Bibliometrix and Biblioshiny tools are employed. In addition, a coding schema is developed for in-depth analysis of 701 documents selected according to the inclusion criteria. In short, the literature on serious games for engineering and management education grows more rapidly than modern science, following a globalised, collaborative and context-based trajectory. The results reveal five main research streams: game design guidelines, game design cases, game experiment guidelines, game experiment cases and generalists. These streams are summarised in a proposed framework. Cross-tabulation and statistical analyses conducted in SPSS Statistics identify the key relationships amongst the research streams. Finally, opportunities to investigate serious games for sustainable development education arise, and there is a need for future efforts to formalise the framework classification algorithm.Practitioner notesWhat is already known about this topicScientific production related to Serious Games (SGs) has grown exponentially in a globalised manner. It reflects the interest from various domains, particularly the field of sustainability in management.Literature reviews on SGs have emphasised various topics, including the acceptance of simulations and games as effective methods of teaching and learning. The role of technology-enhanced games and simulations in the context of digital transformation in education and the emergence of sustainability as a promising field for future SGs research are also highlighted.The literature has introduced three categories for empirical research on SGs: (1) game presentation, (2) game evaluation and (3) game effectiveness. It has also highlighted methodological rigour as a common challenge across studies.What this paper addsScientific research on SGs in Engineering and Management Higher Education (EMHE) experiences exponential and significantly faster growth compared to modern science in a globalised and collaborative manner. This growth reveals the scarcity of experts in this area and attracts the attention of various fields, particularly in the realm of sustainability.Thematic trajectories indicate a decline in discussions regarding users' perceptions of SGs and their validity as educational tools. They also demonstrate consistency in discussions about SGs design, and the potential of sustainability emerges as a promising area for future SGs in EMHE.A comprehensive framework composed by five primary research streams connects game design cases and guidelines, game experiment cases and guidelines and generalists. This framework can serve as a lens for future context-based literature reviews, and the relationships amongst its streams reinforce the idea that the field can benefit from increased methodological rigour in experiments. Implications for practice and/or policyThis review offers categorised supplementary material in which educators can discover a variety of artefacts for application in their specific educational contexts. Designers can access guidelines for enhancing the design of innovative games. Researchers can access guidelines for more effective evaluation of their artefacts across various contexts. Finally, policymakers can explore numerous experiments to inform decisions related to technology-enhanced innovations in the classroom.

Purpose - Knowing the students' readiness for the fourth industrial revolution (4IR) is essential to producing competent, knowledgeable and skilled graduates who can contribute to the skilled workforce in the country. This will assist the Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to ensure that their graduates own skill sets needed to work in the 4IR era. However, studies on students' readiness and preparedness for the 4IR in developing countries such as the Sultanate of Oman are still lacking. Therefore, this study investigates students' readiness level and preparedness for the 4IR. The findings of this study will benefit the HEIs policymakers, administration, faculties, departments, industries and society at large since they will be informed of the student's readiness and preparedness toward industry 4.0. Design/methodology/approach - The authors adopted the measures from the same context as previous studies in this study. The questionnaire was divided into three sections; the first part described the purpose and introduction of the search with the surety to keep the data confidential. The second part consisted of demographical information like gender, education. The last parts consisted of four subsections, question items in these parts are based on the related previous study. Characteristics consisted of 14 items, knowledge consisted of 18 items related to 4IR technologies, Organizational Dimension comprised of four items related to academic programs, curriculum and training. Preparedness contained two items. The participants have rated all the items in 5-Likert scale. Findings - Results from structural equation modeling showed that students' characteristics, knowledge of 4IR technologies and organizational dimensions significantly impact their preparedness for the 4IR. The study also found that organizational dimensions have the highest impact on students' preparedness. Furthermore, the organizational dimension significantly influences students' knowledge of 4IR technology. Moreover, students' characteristics related to 4IR are significantly affected by their knowledge of 4IR technology and organizational dimension. The findings suggest that HEIs are responsible for increasing the adoption of 4IR, and therefore organizational dimensions such as the academic programs, training, technological infrastructure and others are all critical for preparing students for a better future and should be given a priority. Research limitations/implications - This study has used academic programs and training to measure the organizational dimension. However, other important factors should be considered, such as technological infrastructure and leadership and governance of HEIs. Second, the current research depends on quantitative data, so future research should implement a mixed methodology (questionnaires, depth interviews, document analysis and focus group) to understand the factors affecting students' readiness for 4IR clearly. Finally, although the 4IR has numerous benefits, it also has challenges in its implementation, so future studies should focus on challenges encountered by different stakeholders in implementing 4IRrelated technologies. Practical implications - The curriculum must include mandatory courses related to IT infrastructure design, user experience programming, electronic measurement and control principles, and programming for data science. HEIs should also foster interdisciplinary knowledge by integrating IT, Engineering, Business and Sciences. Furthermore, the HEIs should develop their infrastructure to have smart campuses, labs, classrooms and libraries to make HEIs a space where knowledge can be generated and innovative solutions can be proposed. This entails HEIs offering necessary hardware, software and technical support because if the HEIs improve their technological resources, students will be capable of using 4IR-related technologies effectively. Originality/value - The advancement of technology has resulted in the emergence of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, robotics, cloud computing, data science, virtual reality and 3D printing. It is essential to investigate students' readiness for 4IR. However, there is no study as per researchers' knowledge talked about students readiness in HEIs in the Arab world. This study could be a basis for more research on students' perception of the 4IR covering students from various backgrounds and levels.

Purpose This study aims to develop a hierarchical topic analysis tool (HTAT) based on hierarchical Latent Dirichelet allocation (hLDA) to support digital humanities research that is associated with the need of topic exploration on the Digital Humanities Platform for Mr. Lo Chia-Lun's Writings (DHP-LCLW). HTAT can assist humanities scholars on distant reading with analysis of hierarchical text topics, through classifying time-stamped texts into multiple historical eras, conducting hierarchical topic modeling (HTM) according to the texts from different eras and presenting through visualization. The comparative network diagram is another function provided to assist humanities scholars in comparing the difference in the topics they wish to explore and to track how the concept of a topic changes over time from a particular perspective. In addition, HTAT can also provide humanities scholars with the feature to view source texts, thus having high potential to be applied in promoting the effectiveness of topic exploration due to simultaneously integrating both the topic exploration functions of distant reading and close reading. Design/methodology/approach This study adopts a counterbalanced experimental design to examine whether there is significant differences in the effectiveness of topic inquiry, the number of relevant topics inquired and the time spent on them when research participants were alternately conducting text exploration using DHP-LCLW with HTAT or DHP-LCLW with Single-layer Topic Analysis Tool (SLTAT). A technology acceptance questionnaire and semi-structured interviews were also conducted to understand the research participants' perception and feelings toward using the two different tools to assist topic inquiry. Findings The experimental results show that DHP-LCLW with HTAT could better assist the research participants, in comparison with DHP-LCLW with SLTAT, to grasp the topic context of the texts from two particular perspectives assigned by this study within a short period. In addition, the results of the interviews revealed that DHP-LCLW with HTAT, in comparison with SLTAT, was able to provide a topic terms that better met research participnats' expectations and needs, and effectively guided them to the corresponding texts for close reading. In the analysis of technology acceptance and interview data, it can be found that the research participants have a high and positive tendency toward using DHP-LCLW with HTAT to assist topic inquiry. Research limitations/implications The Jieba Chinese word segmentation system was used in the Mr. Lo Chia-Lun's Writings Database in this study, to perform word segmentation on Mr. Lo Chia-Lun's writing texts for topic modeling based on hLDA. Since Jieba word segmentation system is a lexicon based word segmentation system, it cannot identify new words that have still not been collected in the lexicon well. In this case, the correctness of word segmentation on the target texts will affect the results of hLDA topic modeling, and the effectiveness of HTAT in assisting humanities scholars for topic inquiry. Practical implications An HTAT was developed to support digital humanities research in this study. With HTAT, DHP-LCLW provides hmanities scholars with topic clues from different hierarchical perspectives for textual exploration, and with temporal and comparative network diagrams to assist humanities scholars in tracking the evolution of the topics of specific perspectives over time, to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the overall context of the texts. Originality/value In recent years, topic analysis technology that can automatically extract key topic information from a large amount of texts has been developed rapidly, but the topics generated from traditional topic analysis models like LDA (Latent Dirichelet allocation) make it difficult for users to understand the differences in the topics of texts with different hierarchical levels. Thus, this study proposes HTAT which uses hLDA to build a hierarchical topic tree with a tree-like structure without the need to define the number of topics in advance, enabling humanities scholars to quickly grasp the concept of textual topics and use different hierarchical perspectives for further textual exploration. At the same time, it also provides a combination function of temporal division and comparative network diagram to assist humanities scholars in exploring topics and their changes in different eras, which helps them discover more useful research clues or findings.

Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the roles of task-technology fit (TTF), learning-technology fit (LTF) and cognitive absorption (CA) in determining medical professionals' cloud-based electronic learning (e-learning) system continuance intention and performance outcomes and evaluate whether medical professionals' perceived impact on learning can affect their perceived impact on tasks within medical institutions. Design/methodology/approach Sample data for this study were collected from medical professionals at six hospitals in Taiwan. A total of 600 questionnaires were distributed, and 373 (62.2%) usable questionnaires were analyzed using structural equation modeling in this study. Findings In this study, medical professionals' perceived TTF and LTF as antecedents to their cloud-based e-learning continuance intention and performance outcomes were validated, and medical professionals' perceived impact on learning had a positive effect on their perceived impact on tasks. Synthetically speaking, this study's results strongly support the research model with all hypothesized links being significant. Originality/value It is particularly worth mentioning that this study introduces a new construct, "LTF," to conceptualize, define and measure it, and further contributes to the application of capturing both expectation-confirmation model and CA (i.e. an intrinsic motivator) for completely explaining medical professionals' perceived TTF and LTF as external variables to their cloud-based e-learning continuance intention and performance outcomes. Z8 0

International accident statistics indicate that elderly pedestrians make up an extremely vulnerable roaduser group. Past research has shown that older adults make many unsafe street-crossing decisions and adopt insufficient safety margins, especially when vehicles are approaching at high speed. Apart from studies on road design and speed-limit countermeasures, there is surprisingly no road-safety research on behavior-based measures to improve older pedestrians' safety. In this line, the present study was aimed at (i) assessing the effectiveness of a training program for older pedestrians that combined behavioral and educational interventions, and (ii) examining whether and to what extent age-related differences in street-crossing safety could be reduced after training older adults. Twenty seniors were enrolled in a training program. Before, immediately after, and six months after training, street-crossing behavior was assessed using a simulated street-crossing task. Twenty younger participants performed the same simulated task to obtain a baseline measure. The results showed that the training produced significant short- and long-term benefits, due to a shifting of the decision criteria among the older participants towards more conservative judgments. When compared with the younger group, the older participants improved their behavior considerably so that significant differences in the mean safety-related indicators were no longer observed. However, the older participants' ability to take the oncoming car's speed into account did not improve. Even after training, and contrary to younger adults, older participants were found to make more and more unsafe decisions as the car's speed increased, putting them at a higher risk at high speeds. This finding may reflect age-related perceptual and cognitive difficulties that cannot be remedied by a behavioral or educational training method. The present findings underline that high speed is an important risk factor for elderly pedestrians that should be handled by effective speed reduction measures (i.e. speed ramps, road narrowing). (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Objectives: An internet survey was performed to obtain data on the current use in Belgium of hormone replacement therapy and alternative treatments for the alleviation of menopausal symptoms. A supplementary aim was to assess the use of opt-in internet opinion panels (TalkToChange, http://www.talktochange.com, and GMI, http://www.gmi-mr.com/global-panel) as a potential new way to obtain data on menopausal issues. Study design: Data were collected via an internet platform from 696 postmenopausal women aged 45-60 years. Outcome measures: Respondents were asked questions about their socio-demographic profile, their experience of the menopause, the burden of the menopause, its impact on their quality of life and the treatment of menopausal symptoms (if any). Results: The opt-in internet opinion panels proved a quick way (19 days) to obtain reliable information with a low error margin (3.7%). The online survey collected detailed socio-demographic data. Almost all of the women (98%) had heard about the menopause before. Sixty-one percent perceived the menopause as a temporary phase (17% thought it lasted for one or two years and 44% thought it lasted for three to five years) and only 39% realized the menopause would last for the rest of their life. Twenty-three percent of the women reported any kind of impact of the menopause on their quality of life. However, for the other 77% the menopause had resulted in complaints. No differences according to the women's age, level of education or professional status were found in this respect. Sixty-nine percent of the women had 'ever' used some type of treatment for menopausal symptoms and 53% were currently using a treatment. Forty percent of those with more than three symptoms were currently untreated. Of those who were not on hormone replacement therapy (HRT), 61% would not consider taking it (54% were 'strongly opposed' and 7% simply 'opposed'), while 8% would consider asking their doctor for HRT. Among those women who were opposed to HRT, 25% indicated that they were afraid of the increased risk of breast cancer, 34% cited cardiovascular risks and 26% were worried about weight gain. In this Belgian sample, HRT was used significantly more often by French-speaking women (32%) than by Dutch-speaking women (9%) (OR 4.4, p < 0.0001). The alternatives to HRT had a high satisfaction rate among users. Relaxation techniques, regular physical activity, acupuncture and avoiding stress had satisfaction rates similar to that with HRT. It was not possible to compare the alternatives in the same women. Nor was it possible to assess whether more pronounced symptoms required a specific treatment. Conclusion: Opt-in internet opinion panels proved a quick and efficient way to gather data on menopausal issues in Belgium. Despite the high levels of awareness and knowledge, there is some confusion concerning the duration of the menopause, and its common perception as a temporary condition is likely to mean that the menopausal burden is substantially underestimated. Many symptomatic women are untreated. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

INTRODUCTION: An experiment in a program of research supporting the sense-assess-augment (SAA) framework is described. The objective is to use physiological measures to assess operator cognitive workload in remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) operations, and provide augmentation to assist the operator in times of high workload. In previous experiments, physiological measures were identified that demonstrate sensitivity to changes in workload. The current research solely focuses on the augmentation component of the SAA paradigm. This line of research uses a realistic RPA simulation with varying levels of workload. METHODS: Recruited from the Midwest region were 12 individuals (6 women) to participate in the experiment. The subjects were trained to perform a surveillance task and a tracking task using RPAs. There was also a secondary task in which subjects were required to answer cognitive probes. A within subjects factorial design was employed with three factors per task. Subjective workload estimates were acquired using the NASA-TLX. Performance data were calculated using a composite scoring algorithm. RESULTS: Augmentation significantly improved performance and reduced workload in both tasks. In the surveillance task, augmentation increased performance from 573.78 to 679.04. Likewise, augmentation increased performance in the tracking task from 749.39 to 791.81. Augmentation was more beneficial in high workload conditions than low workload conditions. DISCUSSION: The increase in performance and decrease in workload associated with augmentation is an important and anticipated finding. This suggests that augmentation should only be provided when it is truly needed, especially if the augmentation requires additional assets and/or resources.

